GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA I N FORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ETECTRONICS AN D COMMU NICATIONS DEPARTMENT Cir. Memo No.ITEC-l 4/ETRM/5/2021 -OSD Dote: 09.06.202'l Sub:- ITE&C Dept.- ETRM-Offerings under Telongono Stote Blockchoin Fromework - Reg. Ref: Telongono Stote Blockchoin Fromework The ottention of oll Stortups working a tn" Blockchoin ond ollied sectors in the Stote is informed of the reference cited. 2. Government of Telongono hos ployed o pivotol role in encouroging Storiups working in Emerging Technology domoins by creoting on enobling environment bocked with o string of decisive policies ond fromeworks. The Government hos creoted o verticol or wing colled "Emerging Technologies Wing" for emerging technologies with the objective to develop the ecosystem required for the industry ond to moke the Government Deportments leveroge or odopt emerging technologies. Government of Telongono in its bid to support innovotion through disruption hos come up with fovouroble polices ond fromeworks for encouroging stortups ond entrepreneurs in the fields of Blockchoin, Al, Drones, Electric Vehicle, Cyber Security, Cloud Adoption omong others. 3. The Stote of Telongono, with its vision to be o leoder in emerging technologies, hos formuloted the Blockchoin Policy Fromework ond hos token up severol initiotives to develop o conducive ecosystem for the industry in the Stote. Reolizing the potentiol of Blockchoin technology, the government in consultotion with the industry, ocodemio ond the communities is working towords moking Hyderobod ond the Stote on octive hub in this technology. 4. The Blockchoin fromework is bosed oround four moin pillors: . Developing Toleni Pool . Promoting Reseorch & lnnovotion . Supporting lnfrostructure . Enobling Colloboroiion ond Building Community 5. The Government of Telongono hos olso conceptuolized lndio's first Blockchoin District with on oim to creote the world's best blockchoin technology ecosystem. The Telongono Stote Blockchoin Fromework hos olso menlioned obout creotion of shored infrostructure focilities which con be utilized by stortups, industry, communities, ond ocodemio either of nominol cost or free of cost. 6. The Telongono Stote Blockchoin Fromework hos olso eormorked lncentives for the Stortups. Governmeni hos iniended in the policy to utilise its industry relotionships to conduct seminors, workshops ond lectures by renowned industry leoders ond iechnologists to mentor Stortups. 7. Hence, oll the Stortups working in the Blockchoin ond ollied sectors in the Stote ore requested to occess the Telongono Stote Blockchoin Fromework through the below mentioned link ond explore the vorious offerings ovoiloble under its ombit. JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAT SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To All the Componies & Siortups in Telongono. Copy to: Telongono Siote lnnovotion Cell / Telongono Acodemy for Skill ond Knowledge(TASK)/ T-HUBi WE HUB/ T Works /Reseorch ond lnnovotion Circle of Hyderobod (RICH). :: //FORWARDED BY ORDER// r b/*vri/fu"-U- ' tr P;TIoNoFFlcER