Emerging Technologies Wing, Information Technology, Electronics & Communications (ITE&C) Department, Government of Telangana. SpaceTech Framework April 2022 CONTENTS Message 3 Vision 4 SpaceTech Framework 5 Key Pillars 6 1. Enabling Access to Infrastructure 6 2. Business Facilitation and Collaboration 8 3. Skill Development & Training 10 4. Promoting Research & Innovation 11 PAGE 2 VISION The Government of Telangana has been one of the frontrunners in adopting emerging technologies and has taken up several initiatives to develop a conducive ecosystem for the industry in the State. It recognizes the potential of space technology and its industry builds system-level integration Policy Objectives applications for the socio-economic capacity. The downstream applications development of the state and the of the space technology shall be nation. In line with the ongoing leveraged to directly impact citizen’s Become a global efforts of Department of Science life with agricultural studies, disaster technology hub for and Technology (DST), Department management, weather forecasting SpaceTech of Space (DoS) and Indian Space among others. The technology shall Research Agency (ISRO) to encourage be promoted across all areas such private sector’s participation in as scientific research, mapping and Foster and support SpaceTech, the Telangana state surveying, environmental monitoring, business and envisions to: natural resources management, entrepreneurship in geological and oceanographic studies, SpaceTech Establish Telangana as a globally and more. The direct multiplier effect recognized one-stop destination in resulting from the growth of the Space Technology. industry shall boost the economic Attract global The Telangana state is keen on output of associated industries such investments and ensuring that it becomes an end-to-end as manufacturing, telecom, insurance, partners manufacturing hub from design to among others. This policy aims to testing and launch as the private achieve the following objectives: Boost space-related manufacturing and become a preferred destination Establish Telangana as a globally Become the preferred testbed for remote recognized one-stop destination sensing applications in Space Technology. especially for socioeconomic development PAGE 4 SPACETECH FRAMEWORK In an effort to achieve the above discussed objectives and position Telangana as the primary hub for all space-related activities, the government has consulted various stakeholders from industry, academia, national agencies, startups and other domain experts to come up with the state’s strategy which is summarized in the following framework: Key Pillars Enabling Access Business Skill Development Promoting Research to Infrastructure Facilitation and & Training & Innovaion Collaboration Focus Areas Agriculture Urban Planning Disaster Environment & Internet & & Insurance & Development Management Natural Resources Communication Since outer space is governed by all the stakeholders. This separate international laws and requires body shall be responsible for the globally collaborative efforts, it is implementation of this framework and understood that the nation as a whole the identified pillars. shall have to play a role for India’s It shall be supported by the state’s journey towards emerging as the innovation ecosystem comprising leader in the global space sector. But T-Hub and WeHub (women focused) to Telangana as a state shall play a role support the startups; T-Works as the of the facilitator and endeavour to upcoming India’s largest prototyping develop a conducive ecosystem such facility, Telangana Academy for Skill that it becomes a go-to place for all and Knowledge (TASK) for training the new as well as existing startups or workforce; Telangana State Innovation corporates in the sector. In order to Cell (TSIC) for fostering innovation at fulfil its vision, the state shall set up a grassroots level, and RICH (Research separate body to accelerate the state’s and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad) vision by spearheading all initiatives for facilitating the process of taking and act as the central agency for research to market. PAGE 5 Key Pillar 1.1 1 Enabling Access to Infrastructure Public Private Partnerships Telangana based entities were responsible for 30% of the parts for the The state government has identified two much applauded ISRO’s Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM). The state is also areas that require shared infrastructure to leading the way in supporting downstream service providers to build and support the rapid growth of the sector: Small test solutions such as for agriculture. To further establish Telangana as the satellite manufacturing units and state-of- go-to location for activities across the space market’s value chain, requisite the-art assembly, integration and testing (AIT) facilities. The former is the primary infrastructure is a necessity and the state endeavors to facilitate the same. focus as the small size LEO satellites are increasingly becoming mainstream and bear low-risk compared to larger projects. The state government is willing to engage in public private partnership with any potential partner to set up such a facility in Telangana, and any decision shall be made on thorough evaluation • System Integration - design Satellite of the proposals and their value propositions and assembly (Primes) Manufacturing for the ecosystem. • Sub-systems (Tier-1) / Launcher Manufacturing • Equipment (Tier-2) • Components (Tier-3) 1.2 Rapid Prototyping • Launchpad Launch • Teleport and Under the state government’s initiative Services Mission Control T-Works, India’s largest prototyping facility in Hyderabad, and in partnership with various CoEs and academic/research institutions • Broadcasting in the state, a pay-per-use model shall be • Communications established to allow access to fabrication • FSS and MSS and testing equipment along with required skilled labour to enable prototyping of various Satellite Operations & • Navigation satellite/launch components. Capacity Services • Remote Sensing and Earth Observation Space Market 1.3 Value Chain • Ground Stations: Up and down linking Shared Testing Facilitation • Mission Control: Monitoring Ground Equipment and Terminals satellite using telemetry The satellites and launch vehicles undergo and telecommand extensive testing. The flight hardware and systems undergo various environmental and operational tests and the requirement • Value Added Services: is not just for the complete spacecraft, but • Date Marketplaces, for each individual part. Currently, there is Downstream processing and integration a huge dependency on ISRO’s capabilities Serivices • Decision making using to offer testing services but that is not the insights optimum solution. While certain infrastructure • Domain-specific solutions would only be available with ISRO, a set of sector agnostic infrastructure would be available in national, academic and research • Commercial institutions across the state such as ARCI, Users • Consumers NRSC, Electronics Corporation of India Limited • Public (ECIL), Defence Research and Development • Defense Organisation (DRDO), and more. The state government shall facilitate and establish a system where under-utilized infrastructure of such institutions, wherever applicable, can be leveraged for testing of SpaceTech systems. PAGE 6 1.4 1.7 1.10 MSME Connect for Manufacturing Availability of Additive Manufacturing Commercial ground stations The component manufacturing is usually The state government in partnership with Ground Stations are used to receive data led by MSMEs and Telangana has 1,000+ MeitY, Govt. of India is establishing the collected by the satellites and are referred to such entities in the synergetic aerospace National Centre for Additive Manufacturing as Midstream as it connects the upstream and defence industry. Telangana’s (NCAM) in Hyderabad. The center shall and downstream segments. The recent policy GlobalLinker team already has a platform to be responsible for enabling access to reforms have allowed private players to set support the connect with the state’s MSME infrastructure and shall procure Additive up commercial ground stations in India, ecosystem and the same may be leveraged Manufacturing machines across materials otherwise India entities had to rely on foreign and scaled to support the SpaceTech sector. viz. Metal, polymer and carbon fiber. These ground infrastructure to commercialize the The manufacturing capabilities already machines and the support in leveraging data. The downstream sector is the largest exist in the state and the government would the same shall be made available to the in terms of market opportunity and the attempt connecting the stakeholders. SpaceTech companies and thereby support demand from it is rapidly growing and thus local manufacturing of complex parts. driving the entire ecosystem. For Telangana to be a one-stop destination, it shall support the development of any commercial ground 1.5 1.8 stations with strategic land allocations and facilitating approvals. Procurement and Development of Materials Shared R&D Labs 1.11 Manufacturing of satellites and launchers The SpaceTech industry undertakes utilizes various materials that at times requires cutting edge research that is both time and Facilitating Data Access very specific characteristics or relies on resource intensive, and at times the output proprietary materials. To support the industry volume may not justify the cost of exclusive The Draft National Geospatial Policy 2021 in this procurement process, state agencies infrastructure and facilities. Hence, the state discusses the availability of data in real & like T-Works shall leverage their network of shall engage academic institutions like IITH, near real time data and the standardiza- suppliers for the best possible outcome. IIITH, NITW, etc. such that their existing tion of formats so that Geospatial data Further, to reduce the dependencies on infrastructure can be made available to the is available in an interoperable machine imports, the state government shall partner industry on mutually agreeable terms. The readable format. In order to deliver impactful with institutions such as Hyderabad based partnership may even be further extended to solutions, this data also needs to be ARCI (autonomous R&D centre of DST, Govt. pooling of skilled human resources to jointly integrated with other ground data such of India) to undertake material research, undertake and deliver projects by sharing of as agricultural yield, political boundaries, standardization and development efforts in IP rights or otherwise. etc. and the same shall be facilitated via partnership with the SpaceTech industry. Telangana’s Open Data Platform. The access of ground truthing data would be abundantly available in the state owing to growth in IoT and Drone ecosystem driven by state’s policy 1.6 1.9 frameworks. Further, the state government shall partner with NRSC to address any Land at Competitive Prices AI and Data Infrastructure under T-AIM industry concerns on data access. In order to support Telangana based SpaceTech Telangana AI Mission (T-AIM) is a Telangana companies to develop end-to-end capabilities government body established in partnership in the state, the government shall provide land with NASSCOM to undertake activities at strategic locations where development can under the state’s AI Framework. Various be undertaken. The allocation of land parcels innovative applications in the downstream may be done in the state’s aerospace or other segment employ the use of AI to build allied parks such that the industry player can solutions that deliver socio-economic leverage the synergies. impact and are thus also aligned with the state’s AI Framework. Hence, all initiatives such as High-Performance AI Computing Facility (HPAIC) shall also be made available to downstream SpaceTech companies. PAGE 7 Key Pillar 2 2.1 2.3 Investments for Startups Partnership Facilitation Business As part of the state’s ICT Policy 2021-26, a In order to efficiently leverage the existing Facilitation and fund of INR 1,300 Cr is being set up to support ecosystem in the state, the state government Collaboration the startups. The SpaceTech startups shall agencies would assist in channelizing the also be considered under this fund and the synergies in the ecosystem and enable special body, set up under this framework, collaboration amongst companies, startups, will facilitate the process. Further, out of the manufacturers, SMEs and academia. The The global space industry is 1300 Cr cited above, 100 Cr for social-impact state shall facilitate partnerships amongst the growing at a CAGR of 5.6% to startups. national centers, PSUs, state’s Aero-defence reach USD 558 Bn in 2026. Of parks, academic institutions, Foreign or the USD 360 Bn world market domestic OEMs, Domestic SpaceTech industry in 2018, India was valued at and startups, local industry associations, and just USD 7 Bn or ~2% but now more. The scope of the partnership may range the Indian space ecosystem from material development, manufacturing, is undergoing several testing, research, mentorship, market entry, policy reforms to engage technology transfer, etc. as required by the private players and attract market. innovation and investment. It is paramount to nurture the growth in the sector to ensure its rapid growth and hence, the Government of Telangana has identified key support 2.2 2.4 areas to support the industry Incentives Authorization Facilitation in achieving the same. The SpaceTech companies and startups The space industry, due to its very nature, would be eligible to avail applicable incentives requires adherence to regulations and under state’s Industrial, Innovation, Electronics authorizations by the Indian Government. The and other allied policies. In reference to recent policies by the Department of Science the Industrial policy, this shall include (DST) and Technology and the Department “tailor-made incentives” for Mega Projects, of Space (DOS) have enabled private players and consideration of incentives to the to prosper under the frameworks. Alignment entrepreneurs under the T-IDEA (Telangana with the national goals is essential, and the State Industrial Development and Entrepreneur state shall facilitate Telangana based entities Advancement) incentive scheme. in coordinating with the concerned national institutions and support in the compliance and authorization processes. PAGE 8 2.5 2.7 2.9 International Relations Co-Working Space Implementation of Government Projects While the products and services in SpaceTech Hyderabad is a booming IT hub of the country The downstream applications of SpaceTech are to be developed locally, the true potential and is also a centre for aerospace and defence have the potential to directly impact citizen’s of the Indian space sector lies in offering activities. Being located in Telangana’s capital life. This is well understood by the government them globally. The Telangana Government shall yield various intangible benefits in terms and hence it shall adopt the best solutions shall support the Indian innovators in their of partnerships, collaborations and synergetic in the public sector and implement them at international outreach and collaborations support. In order to support the establishment scale in the identified focus areas mentioned by becoming a key partner and facilitating of the local presence of the SpaceTech in Figure 2. The government shall actively partnerships. It shall also act as a key partner industry, the Telangana government may offer work with such innovators across all steps for national organizations and build capacity co-working spaces either at its own sites or of the project lifecycle. Given the expected for international collaborations. in partnership with industry, academia, and nature of most such projects, Telangana State incubators, at competitive rates. Remote Sensing Applications Centre (TRAC) shall actively collaborate with the concerned partners and jointly undertake the projects wherever 2.6 2.8 2.10 Workshops on Insurance and Financing SpaceTech Accelerator Legal & Intellectual Property (IP) Advisory The Indian banking and insurance sector The state government will set up a world SpaceTech has always been one of the most currently have a disconnect with the class SpaceTech Accelerator Center in advanced technical areas but was largely led SpaceTech ecosystem as historically partnership with T-Works, RICH, T-Hub and by government agencies. It is only in recent the private participation sector has been We-Hub to provide the required incubation, years that due to the increase in private relatively low and as a result, there is a lack infrastructure, authorization support, market and commercial activities, the issues with of understanding of the risks and mitigation insights, investor connect and mentorship intellectual properties and legal compliance measures. SpaceTech, especially the upstream support to SpaceTech startups. It will operate are becoming prominent. The knowledge segment (satellites, rockets, etc.), is generally in three stages which includes Idea Evaluation, of and adherence to both national and capital-intensive and the business has a very Prototype Development and Commercializa- international legal framework is required to different risk-potential profile compared to tion of the market-ready products or services. flourishing in the industry. The Telangana more traditional industries. Hence, the state government would support the startups and government shall facilitate and organise companies in legal compliance, patent filing, workshops for the industry stakeholders and and protecting IPs by providing advisory the financial institutions to empower the latter services in partnership with legal institutions with the required information and knowledge such as NALSAR University of Law and state for suitably addressing the needs of the agencies such as RICH and T-Works. sector. PAGE 9 Key Pillar 3 3.1 3.4 Graduate and Postgraduate Skill Development Programs in SpaceTech Space Exploration Labs & Training Space industry is technology intensive and to The State would set up Space Exploration drive innovation in the space, the participation Labs across schools in partnership with of highly educated professionals is essential. NITI Aayog’s Atal Innovation Mission, the Quality manpower is critical While various areas of SpaceTech are areas spacetech industry and academic institutions in the SpaceTech sector, esp. of research across institutes of national to nurture the foundation of space technology in the upstream segment, importance such as IIIT-H and others, and catch them early and young. The adoption as there is limited scope for limited institutes have focused programs in of 100 Atal Tinkering Labs has already been error. In order to establish the sector. The students have mostly been announced by ISRO, and out of the 45 already leveraging the fundamentals learned in allied adopted in Phase-1, 10 labs are situated in Telangana as the beacon disciplines such as electrical, mechanical, Telangana across two districts and will be of private innovation in aerospace, and others. Hence, the state supported by NRSC. The state shall coordinate SpaceTech, attracting and government would collaborate with Telangana the efforts with ISRO to provide hands-on grooming talent is paramount. based universities to introduce both upstream opportunities in the form of mini satellite The bright future of the and downstream focused SpaceTech projects and culminate student’s interest in SpaceTech industry has been programs in consultation with Indian Institute exploring SpaceTech as a career. unlocked by recent reforms of Space Science and Technology (IIST), and an associated massive Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), demand for an employable ISRO, and other relevant stakeholders. workforce is imminent. Hence, the state government with the Telangana Academy for Skill 3.2 3.5 and Knowledge (TASK) shall undertake initiatives to train the Training Programs Space Internships youth in required skill sets. The state government shall forge The State in partnership with startups, local partnerships to conduct training programs industry and academic research institutes will that shall be driven by industry demand offer SpaceTech Internships to Telangana’s to ensure employability of the trained college students. This opportunity will help manpower. These will be offered to school students to undertake applied research and college students, graduates, etc. based programmes under a space scientist, on pre-requisite knowledge required and culminate their interest in space science, and complexity of the program. The focus would hone their skills in SpaceTech. be on fundamental skills required for bottom of the pyramid roles in manufacturing, testing, launch, data processing, etc. 3.3 3.6 Faculty Development Programs Upskilling Programs The State, in partnership with the The State will co-develop upskilling industry and academia, would programmes for already working co-develop a curriculum and a training professionals and research scientists to programme for school and college-level learn the new trends in space science and teachers. These programmers will focus understand the business utility of space on skill development for trainers and technology applications. The training will be would be responsible for the standardisa- focused on the key functionalities of space tion of learning facilities in the State. The technology and its applications in various trainers would be equipped to train the business domains. These newly trained youth for roles at and below middle level. professionals would drive the adoption of downstream space applications across their primary industries. PAGE 10 Key Pillar 4 4.1 3.4 Space Tech Research Programme SpaceTech Innovation Cohorts Promoting The State Government will initiate a SpaceTech The state would set up SpaceTech innovation Research & Research Programme in partnership with the cohorts in partnership with industry and Innovation industry, academia, and other government in focus areas of the state viz. Agriculture agencies to catalyze the innovation in the & Insurance, Urban Planning & Flood state. The Government will also facilitate Modelling, Disaster Management, Forestry & grants, suitable incentives and infrastructure Environment, and Internet & Communication. Technology dominance support to promote research and development These cohorts will be carefully mentored by across industries is the to boost space tech innovation. both the SpaceTech and target domain experts key to a nation’s growth across industry, academia and government as apart from domestic agencies. applications, it unlocks international opportunities. SpaceTech in particular has 3.2 3.5 witnessed countries race towards establishing their Applied Space International superiority. Research and GovtTech Projects Academic Collaborations innovation are the most critical levers to deliver The downstream SpaceTech applications The state shall forge partnerships with growth in a highly competitive have the potential to directly impact citizen’s prominent academic and research institutions industry and truly unlock the life and so the government would support globally to collaborate with Telangana impact that SpaceTech can pilots and Proof-of-Concepts with the various based universities and work towards applied have on citizens. The state government departments. The departments SpaceTech research and innovation. The government shall undertake shall assist with on-ground implementation, government shall facilitate joint projects initiatives in this pillar in close provide mentorship, and closely monitor the between researchers with both virtual deployment to leverage the developed solution collaborations and active exchange programs. collaboration with RICH. across the state/it across these projects, and will leverage the application at the State level. 3.3 3.6 SpaceTech Research SpaceTech Fellowship Programme Grand Challenges The state shall offer Space-Tech Fellowships With a focus to deliver socio-economic impact to students from India and abroad, to work that may arise from use of SpaceTech, the on high end use cases in partnership with State shall identify high impact use-cases government departments, national and and shall conduct grand challenges for the international research academic institutions. same. This initiative will allow innovators to The fellowships shall focus on both the work towards building applications that can technical as well as business aspects in order alleviate various problems for the citizens. to ignite the spirit of entrepreneurship. The best solutions shall be onboarded on the proposed SpaceTech accelerator to build a comprehensive business model, quickly go to market and deploy the solutions at scale. PAGE 11 Jayesh Ranjan, IAS Principal Secretary to Government Information Technology, Electronics & Communications (ITE&C) Department And Industries & Commerce (I&C) Department, Government Of Telangana. Emerging Technologies Wing, Information Technology, Electronics & Communications (ITE&C) Department, Government of Telangana. Ph. +91 40 2345 6401 | F: +91 40 2345 0103 | secy_itc@telangana.gov.in https://It.telangana.gov.in/ PAGE 12 792 035 9599 — snoitulos evitaerc kivraa