GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA YOUTH ADVANCEMENT TOURISM & CULTURE (T&PMU) DEPARTMENT Memo.No. 255/T&PMU I A1 /2021 Dated: 16-05-202'l 5UE:- YAT & C (T&PMU) Department Open Data API: Sharing of Datasets- Regarding. - 8Cf: Tetangana open Data API Policy. The attention of att Registered Companies inctuding Startups in State is informed of the reference cited. 2. Government of Tetangana has ptayed a decisive rote in engaging with companies and Startups. The State with its Open Data Poticy taunched in the year 2016 has revotutionised the open data ptatform and opened up Government data to a host of potential applications. Tetangana's open Data poticy is ajmed at transparency and atso to enabte startups and other companies to address public issues by finding sotutions using the datasets made avaitabte. 3. The Open Data Poucy of Government of Tetangana is supported by the Open Data Ptatform which acts as the central repository of att the datasets of the Government of Tetangana that shoutd be in the pubUc domain. 4. The Youth Advancement Tourism & Cutture Department of Government of Telangana has two wings Tourism & Cutture Wing and Youth Services & Sports Wing. The Department of Tourjsm and Culture is deating with atL the matters retated to Tourjsm, Culture, Youth Services, Sports, Archaeotogy & Museums, Tetangana State Tourism Devetopment Corporation, NCC, Tetangana Sports School, SETWIN, Nationat lnstitution of Tourism and Hospitatity Management (NITHM), Shitparamam, Muttipurpose Cuttural Comptex (MPCC), and the State Art Gattery and on the other hand; The Department of Youth Services was estabtished in the year 1972 wil6 an objective to channetize the energjes of youth for constructive actiyities and wean away them from unsocia[ activities of Telangana. The Department is atso tooking at sharing the datasets avaitabte with them with varjous companies inctuding Startups for encouraging innovation and create additionaI opportunities. 5. ln order to contribute in transparency of Government data and in facitjtating Companies and Startups exptoit gaps across markets and identify business opportunities, create new products and services, and deyetop new business modets, The Youth Adyancement Tourism and Cutture Department has shared the fottowing dataset in Open Data Platform of Tetangana:- Tourism and Cutture 6. Hence, atl the companies including Startups in the State are requested / to visit the portat https: / /data. telanqana.eov. in and exptore the various datasets uptoaded by the Department. K.S. SREENIVASA RA.'U SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To At[ the Companies & Startups in Tetangana Copv to: The PS to the Chief Secretary to Government The PS to ITE&C Department, Government of Tetangana rr //FORWARDED BY ORDER// SECTI N OFFICER