GOVERNMENI OF IETANGANA I N FORMATION TEC H NOLOGY, ELECTRONICS AN D COMMU NICATIONS DEPARIMENI Cir. Memo No.lIEC'1 4/EIRM/5/2021'OSD Dote:0?.06.2021 Sub:- ITE&C Dept.- ETRM-Offerings under Telongono Stote Drone Fromework - Reg. Ref: Telongono Stote Drone Fromework** The ottention of oll Storiups working in the Drone ond ollied sec'tors in the Stote is informed of the reference cited. 2. Governmeni of Telongono hos ployed o pivoiol role in encouroging Stortups working in Emerging Technology dohoins by creoting on enobling environment bocked with o string of detisive polic'res ond fromeworks. The Government hos crecrted o verticol or wing colled ,,Emerging Technologies Wing" for emerging technologies with the objective to develop the ecosystem required for the industry ond to moke the Government Deportments leveroge or odopt emerging technologies. Government of Telongono in iis OIO' to support innovotion through disruption hos come up with fovouroble Oolicqs o1f fromeworks for encouroging Stortups ond entrepreneurs in the fields of Blockchoin, Al. Drones, Electric Vehicle, Cyber Security. Cloud Adoption omong oihers. 3. The Stote of Telongono, being o pioneer in odopting new iechnologies hos topped in this opportunity by lounching o fromework thot enobles the drone industry to grow ond improve service delivery io the citizens, demonstroting the use of technology for societol benefit. 4. The Stote envisions the creotion of o drone ecosystem built on the strong foundotions of on encouroging policy, robust infrostructure, reseorch & development, ond morket occess. Hence, it formuloted the Telongono Stote Drone Frome work to nurture the drone ecosysiem with initiotives under three key pillors: . lnfrostructure:Testing Focility, Focilitotion Cell. Co-working Spoce, Cloud . Tolent Pool:Troining, Educotion, ond Reseorch colloborotions . lncentives: For Drone monufocturers ond service providers 5. The fromework olso oims to enoble ond encouroge the use of drones, which in turn will leod to creotion of employment opportunities ond economic prosperity in the Stote of Telongono. A number of use coses hove been identified to be implemented by the gou.r-n11.nt in heolthcore, mining, environment ond forest, ogriculture etc. One key project i, y," ,,Medicine from the SKy project" to use drones to deliver blood. voccines ond medicines to remote oreos. 6. The Telongono Stote Drone Fromework mentions thot the Government will provide fiscol incentives ovoiloble under "lncentives for lTllTeS Units" ond "ESDM Policy" to drone ond drone component monufocturers ond service providers in order io further boosi the drone industrY. 7. The Telongono Stote Drone Fromework hos olso mentioned thoi government will set up o Drone Monogement Office thot will help government deportments in procuring services from drone service providers (mostly stortups). The focus oreos of the government sholl be ogriculture, energy, municipol odministrotion, mining, inigotion ond public sofety. B. Hence, oll the Siortups working in the Drone ond ollied sectors in the Stote ore requesied to occess the Telongono Stote Drone Fromework through the below mentioned link ond exPlore the vorious offerings ovoiloble under its ombit. tt JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAL SECREIARY IO GOVERNMENI To, All the Componies & Stortups in Telongono. Copy to: Telongono Stote lnnovotion Cell /Telongono Acodemy for Skill ond Knowledge/ THUB/ WE HUB/ T Works/ Reseorch ond lnnovotion Circle of Hyderobod (RICH) //FORWARDED :: BY ORDER// r.B/a,vr#,(%'rry- Secrott oFFtcER ' (