GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT ITE&C Department – Incentives under Innovation Policy – Orders – Issued. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Information Technology, Electronics & Communications Department G.O.Ms.No. 6 Dated: 27-07-2021 Read: G.O.Ms.No. 10, ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana, Dated:25-07-2017. ORDER: - The Government of Telangana through G.O.Ms.No. 10, Dated 25.07.2017 had announced 5 fiscal incentives to startups, where startups are as defined below: “An entity can be recognized as a startup provided it meets all the below laid 5 criterions:  An entity incorporated as a Private Limited Company, or Registered Partnership Firm or a Limited Liability Partnership, or One person company, or a Sole proprietorship.  Should have an annual turnover not exceeding ₹ 100 crores for any of the financial years since its Incorporation.  Period of existence and operations should not be exceeding 10 years from the date of Incorporation.  Should work towards development or improvement of a product, process or service and/or have scalable business model with high potential for creation of wealth & employment.  Entity should not have been formed by splitting up or reconstructing an already existing business. TSIC will be the nodal agency to provide recognition for a startup”. Currently, the 5 fiscal incentives to startups have the following general pre-conditions and incentive-specific eligibility criterions: Pre-conditions for availing any fiscal incentives: ● The Startup should be recognized by the Government of Telangana (Telangana Startup Recognition number) ● E ither or both of the following should be true: a) Startup is incorporated in Telangana (Incorporation certificate) b) Startup’s headquartered/head office is based out of Telangana (Proof of domicile) or More than or equal to 50% of the qualified workforce (permanent workforce is from Telangana) (Proof of domicile) Incentive specific eligibility criterions: ● Reimbursement of SGST: The unit can pay SGST to the concerned department and avail reimbursement on a yearly basis. This will be applicable to only on the SGST paid to the State of Telangana and for a maximum total turnover of INR 1 Crore/annum for the first three years of operation. ● R eimbursement of Patent cost: The cost of filing and prosecution of patent application will be reimbursed to the incubated startup companies subject to a limit of Rs. 2 lakh (0.2 million) per Indian patent awarded. For awarded foreign patents on a single subject matter, upto Rs. 10 lakh (1 million) would be reimbursed. The reimbursement will be done in 2 stages, i.e., 50% after the patent is filed and the balance 50% after the patent is granted. (PTO) ::2:: ● Reimbursement of International Market: Government shall provide reimbursements of 30% of the actual costs including travel incurred in international marketing through trade shows. This incentive will be subject to a maximum of Rs. 5 Lakhs per year per company. ● Reimbursement of Recruitment Assistance: To promote idea stage companies, the government shall offer recruitment assistance of Rs. 10,000 per employee for the first year. ● Performance Grant: Startups that record a year-on-year growth rate of 15%, as per audited accounts, shall be eligible to get a grant of 5% on Turnover, subject to a limit of Rs.10 Lakhs within a period of three years from the date of incorporation. The Government of Telangana wants to bring the following amendments to the undermentioned fiscal incentives to the startups: Reimbursement of SGST:  Relaxation of the ₹ 1 Cr turnover and extension of the time period to 5 years instead of the current 3 years. ● Introduction of an overall reimbursement limit of ₹ 10 Lacs per startup during the period of consideration. Reimbursement of International marketing cost through trade show:  The Evaluation committee will make a case-to-case basis decision on the eligibility status of a particular event’s qualification for this incentive.  The requirement of the annual calendar of events is hereby dropped. Reimbursement of Patent Cost:  This incentive shall also cover Design Patent and Trademarks. Performance Grant: ● The first completed fiscal year of operations of the startup will be considered as the first year for the first three years’ calculation. (i.e., a startup incorporated in Dec’17, the first year will be Apr’18- Mar’19, instead of Dec’17- Mar’18.) ● The year-on-year growth is also applicable even if the startup starts from a zero revenue to any amount that clocks an increase of 15% or more. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To CIO, TSIC Foundation. All the Departments of Secretariat. Copy to: The CEOs of THUB/WE Hub/TASK/TSAT/RICH. The Director Digital Media, ITE&C Dept. The PS to Hon’ble Minister for ITE&C, I&C. The PS to the Chief Secretary to Government. The PS to All Special Chief Secretaries / Principal Secretaries / Secretaries of all Departments of Secretariat. //FORWARDED :: BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER