Startup Definition – Startup Telangana Department of ITE &C, Government of Telangana tsic@telangana.gov.in About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login Register About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login Register About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login/Register Startup Definition Home Startup Definition Startup Definition Is Your Company A Startup? Your company must meet the following criteria to be considered eligible for DPIIT startup recognition. View All Company Age Period of existence and operations should not be exceeding 10 years from the Date of Incorporation Annual Turnover Should have an annual turnover not exceeding ₹ 100 crores for any of the financial years since its Incorporation Innovative & Scalable Should work towards development or improvement of a product, process or service and/or have scalable business model with high potential for creation of wealth & employment Company Type Incorporated as a Private Limited Company, or Registered Partnership Firm or a Limited Liability Partnership, or One person company, or a Sole proprietorship. Original Entity Entity should not have been formed by splitting up or reconstructing an already existing business Tax Exemption For Startups 4237 Income Tax Exemptions 710544 Startup India Hub DPIIT Recognition 225111 Startups Recognised Till Date Month End Report Meta Data SIDBI Funds of Funds 4667 Startups Funded Till Date Discover the Journey of Startup India Watch the startup India Journey of Startup India Why Register? DPIIT recognised startups can get the following benefits under the Startup India Initiative Self Certification Startup Patent Application & IPR Application Tax Exemption Under 801AC Section 56 Exemption Easy Winding Up Of Company Easier Public Procurement Norms A. Objective To reduce the regulatory burden on Startups, thereby allowing them to focus on their core business and keep compliance costs low. B. Benefits Startups shall be allowed to self-certify compliance with 6 labour laws and 3 environmental laws through a simple online procedure. In the case of labour laws, no inspections will be conducted for a period of 5 years. Startups may be inspected only on receipt of a credible and verifiable complaint of violation, filed in writing and approved by at least one level senior to the inspecting officer. In the case of environment laws, startups that fall under the ‘white category’ (as defined by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)) would be able to self-certify compliance, and only random checks would be carried out in such cases. Labour Laws: The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 The Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 Environment Laws: The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Cess Amendment Act, 2003 The Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 C. Eligibility DPIIT recognised startups that are within 10 years of incorporation. To apply for DPIIT recognition, click “Get Recognised” below. D. Registration Process Click here to go to the Shram Suvidha Portal of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Register at the Shram Suvidha Portal and then log in. After successful login, click the link “Is Any of your Establishment a Startup” Follow the instructions. Get Recognised A. Objective Innovation is the bread and butter of startups. Since patents are a way of protecting innovative new ideas that give your company a competitive edge, patenting your product or process can dramatically increase its value and the value of your company. However, filing a patent has historically been an expensive and time consuming process which can be out of the reach of many startups. The objective is to reduce the cost and time taken for a startup to acquire a patent, making it financially viable for them to protect their innovations and encouraging them to innovate further. B. Benefits Fast-tracking of Startup Patent Applications: Patent applications filed by startups shall be fast-tracked for examination so that their value can be realised sooner. Panel of facilitators to assist in filing of IP applications: For effective implementation of the scheme, a panel of “facilitators” shall be empanelled by the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks (CGPDTM), who shall also regulate their conduct and functions. Facilitators will be responsible for providing general advisory on different intellectually property as well as information on protecting and promoting intellectual property in other countries. Government to bear facilitation cost: Under this scheme, the Central Government shall bear the entire fees of the facilitators for any number of patents, trademarks or designs that a Startup may file, and the Startups shall bear the cost of only the statutory fees payable. Rebate on filing of application: Startups shall be provided an 80% rebate in filing of patents vis-a-vis other companies. This will help them pare costs in the crucial formative years C. Eligibility The startup needs to be DPIIT recognised. To apply for DPIIT recognition, click on “Get Recognised” below. D. Registration Process & Documents You should reach out to an appropriate Facilitator – depending on your desired sector and the jurisdiction of the facilitators – for up-to-date information about the process and required documents for a patent or trademark application. Click here for a list of Trademark Facilitators and Patent Facilitators . E. Grievance Redressal In case of any queries or clarifications needed,Please reach out to us through contact us page. A. Objective B. Benefits Eligible startups can be exempted from paying income tax for 3 consecutive financial years out of their first ten years since incorporation. Click here for the original policy notification outlining details of income tax exemptions. C. Eligibility The entity should be a DPIIT recognised startup Only Private Limited Companies or Limited Liability Partnerships are eligible for tax exemption under Section 80IAC The startup should have been incorporated after 1st April, 2016 D. Registration Process & Documents Registration Process Register on the Startup India portal. Click here to register Post registration, apply for DPIIT (Department for Industrial Policy and Promotion) recognition. Click here for Recognition Access the Section 80 IAC exemption application form here Fill in all details with the below mentioned documents uploaded and submit the application form Registration Documents Memorandum of Association for Pvt. Ltd. / LLP Deed Board Resolution (If Any) Annual Accounts of the startup for the last three financial years Income Tax returns for the last three financial years E. Process After Applying Refer to your Dashboard on the Startup India Portal for the status of your application. This can be found on the top right of the page after you log in. In case of any queries or clarifications needed,Please reach out to us through contact us page. Get Recognised A. Objective B. Benefits Exemption under Section 56(2)(VIIB) of Income Tax Act Investments into eligible startups by listed companies with a net worth of more than INR 100 Crore or turnover more than INR 250 Crore shall be exempt under Section 56 (2) VIIB of Income Tax Act Investments into eligible Startups by Accredited Investors, Non-Residents, AIFs (Category I), & listed companies with a net worth more than 100 crores or turnover more than INR 250 Crore, shall be exempt under Section 56(2)(VIIB) of Income Tax Act Consideration of shares received by eligible startups shall be exempt upto an aggregate limit of INR 25 Crore C. Eligibility Should be a private limited company Should be a DPIIT recognised startup. To get DPIIT recognition, click on “Get Recognised” below. Not Investing in specified asset classes Startup should not be investing in immovable property, transport vehicles above INR 10 Lakh, Loans and advances, capital contribution to other entities, except in the ordinary course of business D. Registration Process Register your Startup profile on the Startup India Portal. Click here to Register. Get DPIIT Recognition. To learn more about the steps, click on “Get Recognised” below. File the up Section 56 Exemption application form here . You should receive an email for CBDT within 72 hours of submitting the declaration. Get Recognised A. Objective To make it easier for Startups to shut down or wind up operations, with the objective of allowing entrepreneurs to reallocate capital and resources to more productive avenues faster. To encourage entrepreneurs to experiment with new and innovative ideas, without having to face complex and long-drawn exit processes where their capital becomes interminably stuck in the event of business failure. B. Benefits As per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, startups with simple debt structures, or those meeting certain income specified criteria* can be wound up within 90 days of filing an application for insolvency. An insolvency professional shall be appointed for the Startup, who shall thereafter be in charge of the company (the promoters and management shall no longer run the company) including liquidation of its assets and paying its creditors within six months of such appointment. Upon appointment of the insolvency professional, the liquidator shall be responsible for the swift closure of the business, sale of assets and repayment of creditors in accordance with the distribution waterfall set out in the IBC. This process will respect the concept of limited liability. *criteria can be found here C. Eligibility and Process Learn more at https://www.ibbi.gov.in/ Get Recognised A. Objective Public procurement refers to the process by which governments and state-owned enterprises purchase goods and services from the private sector. Government organisations have significant spending power and can represent a huge market for startups. The objective is to make it easier for startups to participate in the public procurement process and allow them to access another potential market for their products. B. Benefits Opportunity to list your product on Government e-Marketplace : Government e Marketplace (GeM) is an online procurement platform and the largest marketplace for Government Departments to procure products and services. DPIIT Recognized Startups can register on GeM as sellers and sell their products and services directly to Government entities. This is a great opportunity for startups to work on trial orders with the Government. Exemption from Prior Experience/Turnover: In order to promote startups, the Government shall exempt Startups in the manufacturing sector from the criteria of “prior experience/ turnover” without any compromise on the stated quality standards or technical parameters. The Startups will also have to demonstrate requisite capability to execute the project as per the requirements and should have their own manufacturing facility in India. Click here to refer to the notification EMD Exemption: DPIIT recognised startups have been exempted from submitting Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) or bid security while filling government tenders. Click here to refer to the notification C. Eligibility and Process Startups need to be recognized under Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade. Click Here To Learn More D. Registration Process E. Grievance Redressal In case of any queries or clarifications needed,Please reach out to us through contact us page. Get Recognised Useful Links Access the latest information about the Startup India Scheme and DPIIT Recognition here Policy Notifications Official Notifications regarding benefits ynder the Startup India Scheme Income tax Notifications Income Tax Exemption Decision of the Inter Ministerial Board Recogniyion & Tax Exemption Certificates Download your Recognition and/or Tax Exemption Certificates here List of Facilitators for Patents Legal Support and Fast-tracking Patent Examination at Lower Costs List of Facilitators for Trademarks Legal Support and Fast0tracking Trademark Examination at Lower Costs Startup India Action Plan A detailed outline of the scope & activities of the Startup India Scheme FAQs - Patents Some frequently asked questions / queries around Patents in India GeM | Startup Runway Startup runway is an opportunity for Startups to reach out to Government Buyers List of Income tax Exempted Starups Click here to view the startups exempted under 80-IAC. SIPP Scheme Scheme for Facilitating Startups Intellectual Property Protection Guidelines for Recognition of Startups Revised Guidelines for Startup Recognition DPIIT Startup Certificate on DigiLocker A Quick quide to download and verify DPIIT issued Startup Recognition certificate on DigiLocker Contact Details Telangana Innovation Cell, Cabin 17, 3rd Floor, T-Hub 2.0, 20, Inorbit Mall Rd, Vittal Rao Nagar, Madhapur, Telangana 500081. Room 24, Floor 3, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Telangana Secretariat, Telangana Secretariat Rd, Khairatabad, Hyderabad, Telangana 500022. tsic@telangana.gov.in +91 9100678543 QUICK ACCESS Vision Know Your Ecosystem Policies/GOs/Circulars & Schemes Startup Definition Women Entrepreneurship Funding Incentives Locate Us Copyright © Government of Telangana. Developed by Outshade Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Accessibility Tools Increase Text Increase Text Decrease Text Decrease Text Grayscale Grayscale High Contrast High Contrast Negative Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Light Background Links Underline Links Underline Readable Font Readable Font Reset Reset