GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT ITE&C Department – eProcurement Project – New Version of eProcurement Application - Development of New Version of eProcurement and eAuction Application – Go-Live of New Version of eProcurement Application w.e.f. 03.10.2017 – AMENDMENT - Orders – Issued. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (eProcurement) G.O.Ms.No. 15 Dated: 29-09-2017 Read the following:- 1. G.O.Ms.No.14, IT,E&C (eProc) Dept., dt.18.09.2017 2. Lr. No. BAI/20/2017-18, Dtd 25.09.2017 of Builders’ Association of India, Hyderabad, Telangana State *** ORDER: In pursuance of the request made by Builders ‘Association of India, Hyderabad, Telangana State, vide reference 2nd read above and as per the suggestions made by certain User Depts., the following Amendment is issued for the G.O. 1st read above. AMENDMENT FOR Para 7(i) READ AS Para 7(i) (i) All the payments towards the EMD should (i)All the payments towards the EMD be paid through Net Banking/RTGS/ NEFT should be paid through Net Banking/ /Credit Card/Debit Card only RTGS/NEFT/Credit Card/Debit Card/ Bank Guarantee only (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To All the Departments of Secretariat, Telangana Secretariat, Hyderabad. All the HoDs/Corporation/PSUs/Local Bodies/Universities in Telangana State. All the District Collectors in the State. Copy to: The Managing Director, TSTSL, Hyderabad. The President, Builders’ Association of India, Hyderabad, Telangana State M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprises, Hyderabad. M/s Vupadhi Techno Services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad (Consortium Partner of CTE) SF/SC //FORWARDED:: BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER