GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT Industrial Policy – Incentives for setting up of New Industrial Enterprises in Telangana State– T-PRIDE (Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs) Incentives Scheme, 2014 for Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs – Operational Guidelines for implementing the Policy – Issued. INDUSTRIES AND COMMERCE (IP & INF) DEPARTMENT G.O.MS.No. 78 Dated: 09/10/2015 Read the following:- 1. G.O.Ms.No.29, Industries & Commerce (IP&INF) Dept. dated 29.11.2014. 2. From the Commissioner of Industries, Telangana State, Hyderabad Letter No. 30 /2014 /3654-1, Dated: 18/03/2015. ****** ORDER In the G.O. 1st read above, Government have issued orders for extending the Incentives for setting up of New Industrial Enterprises in Telangana State and commence commercial production on or after 01.01.2015 but before 31.3.2019 under T-PRIDE (Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs) Incentives Scheme, 2014 for Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs & Physically Handicapped persons. Projects involving substantial Expansion / Diversification of existing industries in the eligible lines of activities are also entitled for benefits offered under the policy. 2. The Commissioner of Industries, Telangana State Hyderabad in the references 2nd read above, has submitted Operational Guidelines for implementation of T-PRIDE (Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs) Incentives Scheme, 2014 for approval of Government. 3. Government, after careful examination of the matter, hereby issue the operational guidelines under T-PRIDE (Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs) Incentives Scheme, 2014 as appended to these orders. Government have also considered that the time of six months period for filing claim applications from the date of issue of operational guidelines for existing Enterprises/Industries which have already commenced commercial production with effect from 01.01.2015. In case of all other Enterprises/Industries commencing production after issue of operational guidelines claim applications can be submitted as per the time limit prescribed in the operational guidelines. 4. The Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad shall take necessary further action in the matter accordingly. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) ARVIND KUMAR SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT & CIP To The Commissioner/Director of Industries, Telangana, Hyderabad. The Vice Chairman & Managing Director, TSIIC, Hyderabad The VC & Managing Director,, TSIDC, Hyderabad. The Managing Director, Telangana Pradesh State Finance Corporation, Hyderabad. Copy to: The Finance .(EBS.VII) Department The Revenue (CT/LA/Registration) Department. The Irrigation & CAD (Reforms) Department The Energy Department. PTO 2 The LET & F (Employment) Department. The Law Department. The Scheduled Caste Development Dept.,. The Tribal welfare Dept., The Y.A. &T.C. Dept. The Accountant General, Hyderabad The Convener, State Level Banker’s Committee, Andhra Bank Head Office, Secretariat Road, Saifabad, Hyderabad - 500 004. The General Manager, Small Industry Development Bank of India, (SIDBI), Hyderabad. The Pay and Accounts Officer, Hyderabad The Director of Treasuries and Accounts, Hyderabad. All District Collectors through Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. All Heads of Departments through Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. All Govt. Companies/Corporations through Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. The P.S. to Additional Secretary to Chief Minister. The PS to Minister for Industries. The P.S. to Chief Secretary to Government. All Private Secretaries to the Ministers. All General Managers, District Industries Centre through Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. SF/SC . //FORWARDED: BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER 3 APPENDIX (G.O.Ms.No.78, Industries & Commerce(IP & INF) Department, Dt.09.10.2015) OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF T-PRIDE (TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS) INCENTIVES SCHEME 2014 1.0. INTRODUCTION: To promote Telangana as the best investment destination for investors in India, the State Government will offer various incentives/benefits to all new industrial enterprises set up by Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs in the State. Projects involving substantial Expansion / Diversification of existing industries in the eligible lines of activities are also entitled for benefits offered under the policy notified vide G.O.Ms.No.29, Industries & Commerce (IP&INF) Department, dated: 29.11.2014. 2.0. AREA OF OPERATION: The Scheme covers the whole of the State except in the Municipal Corporation limit of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation excluding existing Industrial Estates/Parks, Industrial Estates notified/to be notified and commence commercial production on or after 01/01/2015 but before 31/03/2019. However, the Industrial Enterprises located in Sanathnagar, Azamabad, Chandulal Baradari and Kattedan Industrial Estates of Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy Districts are not eligible for any incentives/concessions. However, the service activities set up in all Municipal Corporation limits as appended in Annexure–A are eligible only for investment subsidy. Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs can also set up projects covered in the list of activities mentioned in Annexure – B to avail the incentives under the T- PRIDE—Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs Incentive Scheme. However projects proposed to be set up in the Municipal Corporation limits of Greater Hyderabad shall obtain pollution clearances wherever necessary. Service Sector projects set up by the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs will be limited to 50% of the Budget provision in order to encourage the remaining 50% for the manufacturing sector. 3.0. COMMENCEMENT AND DURATION. The Scheme will be in operation from 01/01/2015 to 31/03/2019 (inclusive of both dates), with such further modifications as may be brought about during the currency of this scheme DEFINITIONS: 4.0. T-PRIDE—Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs Incentive Scheme: Telangana State Program for Rapid Incubation of Dalit Entrepreneurs Incentive Scheme means, the Scheme of State Incentives / Facilities announced by the State Government vide G.O. Ms.No.29, Industries & Commerce (IP&INF)) Department, dated:29/11/2014. 4.1. Industry or Enterprises: Industrial Enterprises means any industrial undertaking and servicing Enterprise/Industry, other than those run departmentally by Government of India / State Government. 4.2. New Industrial Enterprises /Industry: 4.2.1 New Industrial Enterprise/ Industry means and includes an eligible manufacturing / service industrial Enterprise which has been established in the State with new machinery / equipment and commenced commercial production after 01/01/2015 and before 31/03/2019 (inclusive of both dates) holding valid approvals from the respective authorities. 4 a) Micro Enterprises: Micro Enterprise means an enterprise in which Investment on plant and machinery up to limit as defined by the Government of India from time to time. b) Small Enterprises: Small Enterprise means an enterprise having the investment on plant and machinery up to limit as defined by the Government of India from time to time. c) Medium Enterprises Medium Enterprise means an enterprise in which Investment on plant and machinery up to limit as defined by the Government of India from time to time. d) Large Industries Large Industry means an industry in which the investment on plant and machinery is above Medium Enterprises (as defined by Government of India from time to time). e) Mega Projects: (i) Mega Project means the Industrial Enterprise, which set up with a capital investment of Rs.200 Crore and above (as defined by the State Government from time to time) for a span of three years. (ii) The industrial Enterprise which creates employment to more than 1000 persons (as defined by the State Government from time to time). 4.3. Fixed Capital Investment: Fixed Capital Investment means investment on land, building, plant, machinery & equipment and Goods vehicles assessed as per para 8 of these guidelines. 4.4. Production Capacity: Production capacity of Original Enterprise/Industry: The highest annual production achieved during preceding three financial years prior to expansion/diversification, will be treated as production capacity of the original Enterprise/Industry. 4.5. Expansion Projects: Existing industrial Enterprises, in all eligible areas, setting up expansion projects other than those listed in the ineligible list, involving enhancement of fixed capital investment by at least 25% as well as enhancement of installed capacity by 25% for the same product lines will be eligible for incentives. 4.6. Diversification Projects: Existing industrial Enterprises, in eligible areas, making investment for a new product other than those listed in the ineligible list, involving Diversification with an enhancement at least by 25% of fixed capital investment as well as enhancement of turnover by 25%, in value terms, will be eligible for incentives. 4.7. Erection of additional machinery continuation in the policy period can add new machinery & power. However, incentives/concessions are limited upto (5) years from the original date of commencement of commercial production. But the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production (DCP) will be considered as DCP of the original Enterprise/industry. 4.8. Any Enterprise/Industry going for substantial expansion/diversification, should submit the claim application separately subject to conditions stipulated at para No. 4.6 and 4.7, other wise the Enterprise/industry will be treated as one and the incentives/concessions will be considered from the DCP of the original Enterprise/Industry. 4.9. Expansion/Diversification enterprise/industry should also obtain all the statutory/required approvals. 4.10. Original Fixed Capital Investment: All original fixed capital investment prior to Expansion/Diversification will be treated as original fixed capital investment. While computing this original fixed capital investment, neither depreciation nor revaluation will be taken into account. 5 4.11. Tax: Tax means Commercial Tax paid to State Government by the way of VAT and CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) on goods produced by the industrial enterprise. 4.12. Date of Commencement of Commercial Production (DCP): The date on which commercial production is started, as indicated in the EM Part - II in respect of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and as confirmed through part-B of IEM/IL filed with Government of India in respect of Large industries/Mega Projects. The General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned has to confirm and certify the Date of Commencement Commercial Production. In case of any dispute with regard to date of commencement of commercial production, the SLC (State Level Committee on Incentives) decision is final. 4.13. Continuous Production: Continuous production means continuous working of an industrial Enterprise engaged in the activity of manufacture of approved lines for a minimum period of six (6) years for Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years for Medium Enterprises & Large Industries/Mega Projects, without any break in production. If there is any break in production, such period will be extended. If any industrial enterprise is not in operation/working for more than 90 days continuously, then the industrial enterprise will be treated as not in continuous working. This condition is not applicable for seasonal industrial enterprises which must be working during the season. 4.14. Approved Project Cost: Approved project cost means that cost of the project on different components of the project as approved by the term lending institution or in case of joint financing, by the lead term lending institution. The appraised project cost by the Scheduled Commercial Banks/Financial Institutions recognized by Reserve Bank of India for the purpose of sanction of working capital limits would also be treated as the approved project cost. In respect of self-financed projects, the approved project cost will be fixed by the Multi Disciplinary Committee in respect of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises. In case of self financed large scale industries which have not availed any assistance from financing institutions, such projects shall be referred to Standing Scrutiny Committee (SSC)/Sub-Committee of SLC for inspection and report on the reasonable investment limits on different components of the projects i.e. land, building, plant & machinery and other assets which are necessary to make the project viable. These figures shall be taken as approved project cost. 4.15. REVISED PROJECT COST: The revised project cost for the self financed Industrial Enterprises should be as certified by the Technical Committee consisting of representatives of Industries Department, Telangana State Financial Corporation, Telangana State Industrial Development Corporation (TSIDC), and A.P.Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization (APITCO) as mentioned in the G.O Ms No.193, Ind. & Com. (IP) Department dated 25.11.1995. 4.16. Aided Enterprise/Industry: Availing term loan from Scheduled Commercial Banks/Financial Institutions recognized by Reserve Bank of India, Telangana State Financial Corporation (TSFC), Small Industrial Development Bank of India (SIDBI), Urban Co-operative Private Banks and NBFCs certified by the RBI approved Rated Agencies for setting up the Enterprise/Industry is treated as Aided Enterprise/Industry. 4.17. Month: Month means Calendar months. st st 4.18. Financial Year: 1 April to 31 March. 5.1.0. Definition of SCSP/TSP Enterprises: 5.1.1. There should be 100% ownership by Scheduled Cast /Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs or both together in case of joint venture Enterprise as per G.O.Ms.No.105, Inds.& Comm. (IP) Dept., dated: 23-4-2008. Wherever Scheduled Cast /Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs joint together and form a joint venture the incentives will be determined basing on majority holding by Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe promoters. Such combination should continue for at least six (6) years for Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years for Medium Enterprises & Large Industries/Mega Projects, failing which the special incentives allowed to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs, in excess, if any will be recovered. 5.1.2. Industrial Cooperative Societies, mutually aided cooperative societies (MACS) engaged in the Industrial activity promoted by SC/ST should be exclusively (i.e.100%) for the benefit of SC/ST entrepreneurs. 6 5.1.3. In case of Enterprises set up by Scheduled Cast /Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs, transfer of ownership is not normally permitted. However, transfer from one SC/ST entrepreneur to another SC/ST entrepreneur may be allowed with the prior approval of Commissioner of Industries subject to condition that ultimately 100% share holding of the SC/ST entrepreneur is protected / maintained. 5.1.4. In respect of existing Micro and Small Enterprises, going for expansion/ diversification, the capital investment subsidy will be limited Rs.75.00 lakhs. 5.1.5. In respect of New Service Enterprise or existing Micro and Small Enterprises, going for expansion/ diversification set up by SC/ST entrepreneurs , the capital investment subsidy will be limited to Rs.75.00 lakhs under all the schemes in case of SC/STs and Women SC/ST Entrepreneurs as per the limits prescribed in the T-PRIDE. 5.2.0. Physically Handicapped (Disability) entrepreneurs. 5.2.1. All Disability Entrepreneurs are eligible Incentives / Concessions on par with the SC/ST Entrepreneurs. 5.2.2. These provisions are applicable for Micro / Small Enterprises set up by Disability entrepreneurs. 5.2.3. Micro / Small Enterprises wholly promoted by Disability entrepreneurs as proprietor / partnership / private limited company as sole Proprietress are eligible or invariably having 100% share in Partnership/Private Limited Companies are eligible as per the G.O.Ms.No. 31 Women & Child Welfare & Disabled Welfare (DW) Department, dated: 01/02/2009. 5.2.4. Industrial Cooperative Societies engaged in the Industrial activity promoted by Disability should be exclusively (i.e.100%) for the benefit of Disability entrepreneurs. In case of Enterprises set up by Disability entrepreneurs, transfer of ownership is not normally permitted. However, transfer from one Disability entrepreneur to another Disability entrepreneur may be allowed with the prior approval of Commissioner of Industries subject to condition that ultimately 100% share holding of the Disability entrepreneur is protected / maintained. 5.2.5 The operational guidelines applicable to the SC/ST entrepreneurs are ‘ipso facto’ in respect of Disabled Entrepreneurs. 5.3.0. Service Sector projects by the SC/ST entrepreneurs as listed at Annexure-B of G.O.Ms. No.29 Inds. & Com. (IP & INF) Department, dated:29/11/2014. 5.3.1. The service sector projects will be limited to 50% of the Budget provision during the each financial year. 5.3.2. Manufacturing enterprises will be considered first and then the service sector will be sanctioned so that the 50% restriction is maintained. The preference should be given to variety of service activities instead of sanctioning to same activity by multiple entrepreneurs. The applications shall be scrutinized and approved by DLC on first cum first serve basis. Out of the service sector, release of investment subsidy to the Establishment of Industrial Estates / Parks, Earth Movers / excavators / goods Transport, passenger transport sector will be considered as priority. 5.3.3. While releasing the investment subsidy, the seniority list will be maintained at the Central Office separately for SLC & DLC cases. 5.3.4. The SC/ST entrepreneurs are eligible for claiming subsidy on fixed capital investment only and not on working capital. 5.3.5. EM Part-I and Part-II are not necessary for the activities which are not required to be registered under MSMED Act, 2006. 5.3.6. All the entrepreneurs should have Permanent Account Number (PAN). 5.4.0. Eligibility criteria for service sector for SC/ST Enterprenuers forunits at annexure- B of G O Ms. No.29 Inds&Com.(IP & INF) Department dt:29/11/2014 LINE OF ACTIVITY ELIGIBILITY & GUIDELINES 5.4.1 The manufacture, preservation or : processing of goods 7 5.4.2 Mining or development or mines : The cost of equipment in mining process is eligible. 5.4.3 The Hotel industry : The fixed capital investment involved in the land, hotel building, equipment and furniture, air conditioners for running the hotel are eligible. 5.4.4 The transport of passengers or goods by : The transport vehicles are to be road or by water or by air or by registered as Taxi. ropeway or by lift 5.4.5 The generation or distribution of : The fixed capital investment involved electricity or any other form of power in the power generation plant is eligible. 5.4.6 The maintenance, repair, testing or : The fixed capital investment involved servicing of machinery of any in the land, building and tools / description or vehicles or vessels or equipment is eligible motor boats or trailers or tractors 5.4.7 Assembling, repairing or packing any : The fixed capital investment involved article with the aid of machinery or in the land, building & machinery/ power equipment is eligible. 5.4.8 The setting up or development of an : The minimum land area should be more industrial area or industrial estate: than 10-Acres with minimum 20-plots for calculating investment subsidy. The land should be registered in the name of the developer only. No lease land is allowed. 5.4.9 Fishing or providing shore facilities for : The fixed capital investment involved fishing or maintenance thereof in land, building and equipment is eligible. 5.4.10 Providing weigh bridge facilities : The fixed capital investment involved in the land, building and equipment is eligible. 5.4.11 Providing engineering technical, : The fixed capital investment involved financial, management, marketing or in the land, building and Tools other services or facilities for industry /Equipment is eligible. 5.4.12 Providing medical, health or other : The fixed capital investment involved allied services in the land, building and Hospital equipment is eligible. 5.4.13 Providing software or hardware : The fixed capital investment involved services relating to information in the land, building and equipment is technology, telecommunications or eligible. electronics including satellite linkage and audio or visual cable communication 5.4.14 Setting up or development of tourism : The fixed capital investment involved related facilities including amusement in the land, building and equipment, air parks, convention centers, restaurants, conditioners, Fixtures Furniture are travel and transport (including those at only eligible. airports), tourist service agencies and guidance and counseling services to the tourists 5.4.15 Construction : The fixed capital investment involved in the “construction equipment only” is eligible. 8 5.4.16 Development, maintenance and : The fixed capital investment involved construction of roads in the equipment used for laying the Road is eligible i.e Road rollers, Pavers etc. 5.4.17 Providing commercial complex : The fixed capital investment involved facilities and community centers in the land, building air conditioners, including conference halls Furniture are eligible. The facility created should be in the name of the entrepreneur or enterprise for a minimum period of six years. 5.4.18 Providing Service Apartment facilities: : The fixed capital investment involved in the land, building and equipment such as air conditioners, Fixtures, Furniture are eligible. The facility created should be in the name of the entrepreneur or enterprise for a minimum period of six years. The Service Apartment may be a part of apartment in commercial, Semi Commercial, Residential apartment and independent House subject to obtaining the trade licence from the competent authorities like Municipalities and Gram Panchayath. However, the independent service apartments / House should obtain Commercial Permission from Local Body authorities . 5.4.19 Floriculture, Nursery : The fixed capital investment involved in the land, building and equipment is only eligible. 5.4.20 Tissue culture, fish culture, poultry : The fixed capital investment involved farming, breeding and hatcheries in the land, building and equipment is only eligible. Animal Rearing Point of lay cost in respect of Poultry, Goat and Sheep farming. 5.4.21 Service industry, such as altering, : The fixed capital investment involved ornamenting, polishing, finishing, in the land, building and equipment is oiling, washing, cleaning or otherwise only eligible. treating or adapting any article or substance with a view to its use, sale, transport, delivery or disposal 5.4.22 Research and development of any : The fixed capital investment involved concept, technology, design, process or in the land, building and equipment is product, whether in relation to any of only eligible. the matters aforesaid, including any activities approved by the Small Industries Bank; or 5.4.23 Such other activity as may be approved : The fixed capital investment involved by the State Level Committee. in the land, building and equipment is only eligible as approved by SLC 6.0. PROCEDURE FOR CLAIMING VARIOUS INCENTIVES OFFERED UNDER THE SCHEME: MEESEVA The Incentive Claim applications filed by the unit through the Meeseva centers started since July, 2013.This request can be accessed by the Department with the following required documents: 1) Meeseva application form 2) Department claim application form 9 The Service Level is 30 days for Micro and 60 days for remaining nature of enterprises / industries. Competent authority will be changed based on Nature of enterprise / Industry. District Industries Centre, General Manager is Competent for MICRO industries and Joint Director at COI level is competent for other types of Enterprises / Industries. This facility will be made available online on TS-iPASS website and separate instructions will be issued for this purpose. 6.1.0 Reimbursement of Stamp duty, Transfer duty, Mortgage & Hypothecation duty: 6.1.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure-VI for reimbursement of stamp duty, transfer duty, mortgages and hypothecation duty within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.1.2 100% reimbursement of Stamp duty and transfer duty paid by the Enterprises on purchase of land/shed/building meant for industrial use. 6.1.3 100% reimbursement of Stamp duty for Lease of Land/Shed/ Buildings and also mortgages and hypothecations deeds. 6.1.4 The Stamp duty, Transfer duty, mortgages and hypothecations benefits shall be applicable to all eligible (a) new industrial Enterprises and (b) Expansion/Diversification projects, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 6.1.5 The above incentive shall be admissible to eligible Enterprises on the land area upto five times of the plinth area of the factory building constructed within the approved project cost. However, in respect of industries where the open land requirements would be larger due to the specific nature of industry, SLC may consider allowing land in excess of five times plinth area on case to case basis. 6.1.6 Mortgages and hypothecations duty paid by an enterprise for availing Term loan from the financial institutions on assessed fixed capital investment would only be eligible. 6.1.7 If any industrial enterprise had already availed stamp duty or transfer duty concession on land under G.O.Ms.No.9, Industries & Commerce (IP) Department, dated:05.01.2001, the concession would be reduced proportionately. 6.2.0 Reimbursement on land cost in IEs/IDA/IP’s: 6.2.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – VI for Reimbursement on land cost within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.2.2 33 1/3% Reimbursement on land cost in IE/IDA/IP’s limited to Rs.10.00 Lakhs in Industrial Estates / Industrial Parks, if not availed rebate from TSIIC as per G.O Ms.No. 102, Industries & Commerce (INF), Department, dt. 19.6.2012. 6.2.3 The above benefit is available to all eligible a) new industrial Enterprises and b) Expansion/Diversification Projects, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 6.2.4 The above benefit shall be provided on purchase of land directly from APIIC only. 6.2.5 The above benefits shall be admissible to the extent up to five times of the plinth area of the factory building constructed within the approved project cost. However, in respect of industries where the open land requirements would be large due to the specific nature of industry, SLC may consider allowing land in excess of 5 times plinth area on case to case basis. 6.3.0 Reimbursement of land conversion Charges. 6.3.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure- VI for reimbursement of land conversion charges within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.3.2 25% Land conversion charges for industrial use limited to Rs.10.00 Lakh for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises only. 6.3.3 The Reimbursement of Land conversion charges shall be applicable to all eligible (a) new Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and also (b) Expansion/Diversification of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 10 6.3.4 The above incentive shall be admissible to eligible Enterprises on the land area upto five times of the plinth area of the factory building constructed. However, in respect of industries where the open land requirements would be larger due to the specific nature of industry, SLC may consider allowing land in excess of five times plinth area on case to case basis. 6.4.0 Reimbursement of Power consumption Charges: 6.4.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure - VII for Reimbursement of Power cost within six months after completion of every Half-year i.e., last date for filing claim application is 31st of March for first half year and 30th of September for second half year along with the documents mentioned in the Application to the General Manager, District Industries Centre through Meeseva concerned on half yearly basis. 6.4.2 Fixed power cost reimbursement @ Rs. 1.50 per unit for a period of 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial production. 6.4.3 This reimbursement is only on the energy consumption (KVAH) charges but not on Maximum Demand or any other charges levied by DISCOMs. Residential & Colony power consumption will be deducted. 6.4.4 The Reimbursement of power cost shall be applicable to all eligible a) new industrial Enterprises and b) Expansion/Diversification Projects, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 6.4.5 The power cost reimbursement shall be applicable to the industrial enterprises, which are utilizing power from DISCOM only and power connection should be in the name of the Enterprise/industry. 6.4.6 Reimbursement of power cost will be allowed in case of Expansion/ Diversification Projects over and above base power consumed. For the purpose of reimbursement, annual power consumption will be taken into account. The reimbursement will be made every 6 months, but in case of actual power consumed during the year is less than annual base consumption, reimbursement made during any previous period will be adjusted in future reimbursement. If excess is paid and could not be adjusted in future claims, will be recovered under Revenue Recovery Act. 6.4.7 The base annual consumption will be average annual power consumption of previous three financial years of the Expansion/Diversification project as certified by Chartered Accountant. Power consumed over and above the base consumption will be eligible for reimbursement of power cost. If the Enterprise/Industry taken up expansion/diversification in the same year, the base power consumption will be calculated proportionately. 6.5.0 Investment subsidy: 6.5.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – VIII for investment subsidy within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.5.2 35% investment subsidy on fixed capital Investment for Micro and Small Enterprises set up by SC and ST Entrepreneurs, with a maximum limit per unit as Rs. 75.00 Lakhs. Additional 5% investment subsidy for units set up in Scheduled Areas by ST entrepreneurs with a maximum limit per unit as Rs.75.00 Lakhs. Additional 10% investment subsidy for SC Women and ST Women Entrepreneurs on fixed capital investment subject to a maximum of Rs. 10.00 lakhs to MSE’s. (total investment subsidy limited to Rs.75.00 lakhs only) 6.5.3 Investment subsidy shall be applicable to all identified service activities related to industries setup in all Municipal Corporation limits in the state as per the list appended as Annexure –A appended to GO.Ms.No.29, Inds.& Comm (IP & INF) Dept., dated: 29-11- 2014. 6.5.4 Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs can set up projects to avail the incentives under T-PRIDE anywhere in the state, however projects proposed to be set up in the Municipal Corporation limits Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation shall obtain pollution clearances wherever necessary. 6.5.5 Service Sector projects set up by the SC/ST entrepreneurs will be limited to 50% of the budget, in order to encourage the remaining 50% for the manufacturing sector. 11 6.5.6 Investment Subsidy shall be applicable to all eligible a) new Micro and Small Enterprises and b) Expansion/Diversification of Micro and Small Enterprises, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 6.5.7 The line of activity of Earth Excavation equipment is considered as eligible exclusively in case of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs and incentive shall be extended under service activity. 6.5.8 Two and Three wheelers are not eligible for any type of incentives under T-PRIDE Incentives scheme 2014. 6.6.0 Seed Capital Assistance: 6.6.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – X for Seed Capital Assistance within six months from the date of sanction of term loan by the Financial Institution, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.6.2 The Seed capital assistance to First Generation Entrepreneurs to set-up Micro Enterprises, @20% of the Machinery cost will be paid and the same will be deducted from the eligible investment subsidy. 6.6.3 This facility shall be applicable to new Micro Enterprises only. This facility is not applicable for expansion/diversification programme, since the assistance is mainly meant for the first generation Entrepreneurs. 6.7.0 Reimbursement of Tax: 6.7.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – XI for Reimbursement of Sales Tax within six months after completion of the Every Half year i.e. last date for claiming application is 31st March for the 1st Half Year and 30th of September for 2nd Half Year along with required documents mentioned in the Application, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on Half yearly basis through Mee seva. 6.7.2 In case of Micro & Small Enterprises, 100% VAT/CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) will be reimbursed for a period of five (5) years from the date of commencement of commercial production. 6.7.3 In case of Medium Enterprises, 75% VAT/CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) will be reimbursed for a period of seven (7) years from the date of commencement of commercial production or up to realization of 100% fixed capital investment, whichever is earlier. 6.7.4 In case of Large Industries, 50% VAT/CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) will be reimbursed for a period of seven (7) years from the date of commencement of commercial production or up to realization of 100% fixed capital investment, whichever is earlier. 6.7.5 The above incentive shall be applicable to all eligible (a) new industrial Enterprises and (b) Expansion/Diversification projects, subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated at para No. 4.5 or 4.6. 6.7.6 Reimbursement on VAT/CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) will be allowed in case of Expansion/ Diversification Projects over and above base annual production capacity or base turn over. For the purpose of reimbursement, annual production or turn over will be taken into account. The reimbursement will be made every six (6) months, but in case of actual production or turn over during the year is less than annual base annual production capacity or base turn over, reimbursement made during any previous period will be adjusted in future reimbursement. If excess is paid and could not be adjusted in future claims, will be recovered under Revenue Recovery Act. 6.7.7 The Expansion/Diversification projects will be allowed reimbursement on VAT/CST or State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) paid on production made over and above the base annual production capacity of the original Enterprise/Industry i.e. before expansion/ Diversification. The base annual production is the average annual production of previous three financial years in case of manufacturing single product (as certified by Financial Institution/ Charted Accountant). If the Enterprise/Industry taken up expansion/diversification in the same year, the base capacity will be calculated proportionately. In case of multi products, the average annual sales turnover of previous three financial years will be taken as base turnover (as certified by Charted Accountant). 6.7.8 The enterprise/industry shall obtain the details of the net commercial tax paid during the year for which the claim is being made duly certified by Commercial Tax authorities in form prescribed at Form-A for original/expansion / Diversification Enterprise/Industry separately as the case may be. 12 6.8.0 Reimbursement on the expenses incurred for quality certification/patent registration: 6.8.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure - XII for Reimbursement of the expenses incurred for quality certification within six months from the date of obtaining quality certification along with required documents mentioned in Application, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.8.2 100% subsidy on the expenses incurred for quality certification/ patent registration limited to Rs.3.00 Lakhs for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises will be reimbursed. 6.8.3 This facility shall be available to all eligible new and Existing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, obtaining quality certification from BIS/ISO/HACCP/other national/international certification agencies. 6.9.0 Reimbursement on specific cleaner production measures: 6.9.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure - XIII for subsidy on specific cleaner production measures within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production along with required documents mentioned in Application, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.9.2 25% subsidy limited to Rs.5.00 Lakh will be provided on the cost incurred on capital equipment installation for specific cleaner production measures. 6.9.3 Cleaner production measures are adoption of cleaner technologies and techniques within the industry to reduce and avoid pollution and waste in the entire production cycle. 6.9.4 The Enterprise/Industry shall obtain a certificate from TSPCB on the specific cleaner production measures adopted and the cost of the equipment involved therein. 6.9.5 This facility shall be applicable to all eligible new and expansion/ diversification projects. 6.10.0 Reimbursement of cost involved in skill upgradation and training: 6.10.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure - XIV for Reimbursement of cost involved in skill up gradation and training the local manpower within six months after completion of such training programme along with required documents mentioned in Application, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 6.10.2 50% Reimbursement of cost involved in skill up gradation and training only local manpower limited to Rs.2000/- per person as a onetime facility will be provided. 6.10.3 After recruitment of the local candidates, in-plant training to be organized. 6.10.4 Reputed Agencies both Government and Private shall be engaged. 6.10.5 The eligible Enterprises/Industries have to inform the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned well in advance of the commencement of training programme. The General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned shall monitor the skill development training programme. 6.10.6 The Enterprise/industry should submit the list of employees trained along with their appointment letters duly certified by the promoter. 6.10.7 The training should be more practical oriented rather than pure theoretical one. 6.10.8 This facility should be utilized for training the local manpower so that the local manpower will be readily suitable for employment. 6.10.9 The training should be aimed at up gradation of skill, which should be useful to the organisation. 6.10.10 Detailed Guidelines will be issued on the subject separately in regard to skill up gradation, training period and local employment 6.11.0 PAVALA VADDI 6.11.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure - IX for Pavala Vaddi within six months after completion of every half year i.e., last date for filing claim application is 31st of March for first half-year and 30th of September for second half-year along with the documents mentioned in the Application to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on half yearly basis through Mee seva. 6.11.2 Interest subsidy under Pavala Vaddi Scheme on the term loan availed on the fixed capital investment by New Micro and Small Enterprises in excess of 3% per annum subject to a maximum reimbursement of 9% per annum for a period of 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial production. However, for fixing the eligibility of Term Loan for availing Pavala Vaddi, the fixed capital investment computed for the purpose of Investment Subsidy or Term loan availed on fixed capital investment by the Entrepreneur which ever is less. 13 6.11.3 This facility shall be applicable to the Term Loan availed on Fixed Capital Investment by all eligible new Micro and Small Enterprises including transport sector. 6.11.4 a) Minimum 3% interest per annum should be borne by the Enterprise. b) Over and above 3% interest per annum reimbursement will be done to the extent of 9% maximum i.e. up to 12% interest per annum for a period of 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial production under Pavala Vaddi Scheme. c) Over and above 12% interest per annum, the enterprise has to bear. 6.11.5 This facility is not applicable for expansion/diversification projects. 6.11.6 The Transport of Passengers or Goods by road or by water or by Air or by ropeway or by lift are also eligible for availing interest subsidy under Pavala Vaddi. 6.11.7 The new enterprises & industries under T-PRIDE Incentive Scheme 2014, availing term loan from Scheduled Commercial Banks / Financial Institutions recognized by Reserve Bank of India, Telangana State Financial Corporation (TSSFC) and Small Industrial Development Bank of India (SIDBI) only are eligible under this scheme. 6.11.8 The Interest amount paid by the new eligible enterprises & industries to the Financial Institutions/Banks on the term loan availed will be reimbursed with a maximum limit of 9% on half yearly basis through the Financial Institutions/Banks concerned. Benefit will be available for a period of five (5) years from the date of commencement of commercial production i.e. up to the 1st half of 6th year or till the closure of the term loan account, whichever is earlier. 6.11.9 The sanctioned term loan disbursed within six months from the date of commencement of commercial production has to be part and parcel of original Term Loan sanctioned. Second Term Loan is not eligible under the Scheme. 6.11.10 The reimbursement of interest will be considered only from the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production onwards whatever the interest liability is for moratorium or regular loan. 6.11.11 This reimbursement to the Enterprise/Industry shall not include penal interest, liquidated damages etc. paid to the Financial Institutions / Banks. 6.11.12 The benefit shall be extended only to the eligible new enterprises/industries which are regularly repaying the Loan installments of principal & interest. 6.11.13 The loan accounts that are classified as overdue in the books of the bank at the time of half-yearly closing and that which are classified as Non-performing Assets at year-end closing are ineligible. However, if they resume on-time repayments and regularize the arrears, they are eligible for the incentive in the next half-yearly period. For this purpose the banker has to certify that the repayment is regular and the Account is standard and the same certificate is to be enclosed along with claim application. 6.11.14 After receipt of the Reimbursement of Interest amount through RTGS/NEFT by the Bank branch concerned from Commissionerate of Industries account, the amount shall be disbursed to the industrial Enterprise immediately. 6.12.0 CLAIMING OF INVESTMENT SUBSIDY PRIOR TO DATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION(DCP) BY SC/ST ENTREPRENEURS: 6.12.1 The Commissioner of Industries, Telangana, Hyderabad will act as Nodal Agency for implementation of SCSP/TSP. 6.12.2 The General Manager, District Industries Centre will recommend the applications after placing before the District Investment Promotion Committee (DIPC) to the Commissioner of Industries with his specific remarks/recommendation on the proposed sanction of Investment Subsidy prior to DCP. 6.12.3 The Investment Subsidy prior to DCP is eligible for new Micro and Small Enterprises i.e Manufacturing & Service sector except transport sector. 6.12.4 The Investment Subsidy prior to DCP is eligible to the entrepreneurs, as per the financial institution appraisal. However, the SC/ST Entrepreneurs should bring in capital at least 10% of the total project cost. 6.12.5 The SC/ST entrepreneurs shall submit the claim applications to the General Manager, District Industries Centre of the district concerned in the prescribed application form given at Annexure-XVI, after sanction of term loan by the financial institution /scheduled commercial banks. 6.12.6 After release of Investment subsidy, the Enterprise should commence commercial production within eighteen (18) months, other wise the released investment subsidy will be recovered. 14 6.12.7 The General Manager, District Industries Centre should monitor the progress of the Enterprise and submit report to the Commissioner of Industries on quarterly basis. 6.12.8 The SC/ST entrepreneurs are eligible for investment subsidy only after term loan is sanctioned . The commissioner of industries, Telangana, Hyderabad will sanction and release Investment subsidy after Term loan is sanctioned by the TSSFC Scheduled Banks irrespective of the date of commencement of commercial production. The release will be made on Pari Passu mode to facilitate the SC/ST entrepreneurs to implement the project. 6.12.9 The Investment Subsidy prior to DCP will be sanctioned and released@ 35% and 45% of the eligible Investment subsidy as 1st & 2nd installments respectively in “pari passu” mode along with term loan by the Commissioner of Industries subject to availability of budget under SCSP/TSP. 6.12.10 The final 20% Investment subsidy will be sanctioned and released after the commencement of commercial production by the respective SLC/DLC. 6.12.11 The Investment Subsidy prior to DCP is eligible for manufacturing and Service sector except transport sector. This facility is not available for Transport Sector. 6.12.12 The Self finance Enterprises are not eligible for the Investment Subsidy prior to DCP. 6.12.13 All eligible SC/ST entrepreneurs shall submit the applications for the sanction of Investment Subsidy prior to DCP in the proforma given at Annexure – XVI, after obtaining all the statutory approvals for establishment of the enterprise. 6.13.0 Women entrepreneurs. 6.13.1 These provisions are applicable for Micro / Small Enterprises set up by Women entrepreneurs. 6.13.2 Micro / Small Enterprises wholly promoted by Women entrepreneurs as proprietor / partnership / private limited company as sole Proprietress are eligible or invariably having 100% share in Partnership/Private Limited Companies are eligible as per the G.O.Ms.274 Industries & Commerce (IP) Department, dated: 16/08/2008. 6.13.3 Industrial Cooperative Societies engaged in the Industrial activity promoted by Women should be exclusively (i.e.100%) for the benefit of Women entrepreneurs. 6.13.4 In case of Enterprises set up by Women entrepreneurs, transfer of ownership is not normally permitted. However, transfer from one Women entrepreneur to another Women entrepreneur may be allowed with the prior approval of Commissioner of Industries subject to condition that ultimately 100% share holding of the Women entrepreneur is protected / maintained. 6.14.0 Allotment of Land to SC/ST Entrepreneurs by the Telangana Industrial Infrastructure Corporation: Land will be allotted to SC/ST Entrepreneurs in proportion to the SC/ST population in the State. The subsidy component involved in allotment of lands to SC/ST entrepreneurs is as follows: 6.14.1 The land will be allotted on lease basis for a period of 10 years with lease rent @ Rs. 100/- per annum per acre or part thereof 6.14.2 The land cost will be levied at the rates prevailing as on the date of allotment duly allowing 33 1/3 rebate on the land cost (subject to Rs. 10 Lakhs) which is being allowed to the SC/ST Entrepreneurs and the same will be collected as follows: a) Initial 25% of land cost at the time of allotment within the stipulated period of 90 days and the allottee shall execute lease agreement / lease dated within the stipulated period and take possession of the allotted plot/land. b) From the date of execution & registration of lease agreement, there will be moratorium period of 2 (two years c) After completion of the above moratorium period, the balance 75% of land cost will be collected in 8 (eight) annual installments comprising principle component and interest. 7.1.0 INDUSTRIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND (IIDF) 7.1.1 All eligible industrial Enterprises shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – XV for financial assistance before date of commencement of commercial production or within six months from the date of commencement of 15 commercial production along with required documents, to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned through Mee seva. 7.1.2 For Micro and Small Enterprises set up by Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs, Infrastructure like roads, power and water will be provided at doorstep of the industry for standalone enterprises/industries by contributing 50% of the cost of infrastructure from IIDF with a ceiling of Rs.1.00 Crore, subject to (a) the location should be beyond 10 kms from the existing Industrial Estates/IDAs having vacant land/shed for allotment and (b) cost of the infrastructure limited to 15% of the eligible fixed capital investment made in the industry. 50% of the cost of infrastructure is raised to 75% in respect of enterprises/industries set up by ST entrepreneurs in Scheduled areas. 7.1.3 The General Manager, District Industries Centre will recommend the applications after placing before the District Investment Promotion Committee (DIPC) Meeting to the Commissioner of Industries with his specific remarks/recommendation on the proposed Infrastructure to be developed together with the following information. 7.1.4 The Enterprise/Industry should give a declaration stating that they have not availed any financial assistance from the Government earlier for the proposed Infrastructure to be developed: 7.1.5 Declaration from the line department concerned shall be obtained stating that the project is not covered in the budgetary estimates of current year. 7.1.6 The Infrastructure estimates are to be confirmed by District head of the line department concerned with certificate that no departmental funds are available for this purpose. 7.1.7 This assistance would be available for all eligible Medium Enterprises & Large Industries and Mega projects only. However, in case of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs the assistance would be available for all Micro and Small Enterprises also. 7.1.8 For Micro and Small Enterprises set up by Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs, Infrastructure like roads, power and water will be provided at doorstep of the industry for stand alone enterprises/industries by contributing 50% of the cost of infrastructure from IIDF with a ceiling of Rs.1.00 Crore, subject to (a) the location should be beyond 10 Kms from the existing Industrial Estates/IDAs having vacant land/shed for allotment and (b) cost of the infrastructure limited to 15% of the eligible fixed capital investment made in the industry. 50% of the cost of infrastructure is raised to 75% in respect of enterprises/industries set up by ST entrepreneurs in Scheduled areas. 7.1.9 The State Government will provide financial assistance as a grant to the new Industrial Enterprises for the development of following Infrastructure facilities upto the door step of the proposed Industrial Enterprises. a. Drinking Water and Industrial Water b. Electricity – Power connection c. Laying of drainage line from the Enterprise/Industry/Industrial Estate to the existing Point or to the natural drainage point: d. Approach Road to the Enterprise/Industry e. Any other infrastructure facilities as approved by the Government/SLC.. 7.1.10 The Industries which are declared as “in-eligible industries” under Annexure of G.O.Ms.No.62, Industries & Commerce(IP & INF) Department, Dt.08.09.2015 are not eligible for financial assistance from Industrial infrastructure Development Fund. However, it is not applicable to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs. 7.1.11 Before release of incentives amount, the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned has to ascertain the working condition of the enterprise/industry. 7.1.12 The Enterprise/Industry should be in operation for at least six (6) years from the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production, if not, the grant will be recovered. 16 7.2.0 STATE LEVEL SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEES FOR IIDF 7.2.1 Additional Director of Industries, Hyderabad. Chairman 7.2.2 President of Federation of Telangana & Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce and Industry or his nominee Member 7.2.3 President of FETSIA (Federation of Telangana Small Industries Associations or his nominee. Member 7.2.4 Managing Director, A.P. State Financial Corporation, (Telangana Unit), Hyderabad or his nominee Member 7.2.5 Convener, SLBC, Member 7.2.6 Executive Director, T.S. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, Hyderabad or his nominee Member 7.2.7 Chief Engineer, TSTRANSCO Member 7.2.8 Engineer in chief Panchayat Raj or his nominee Member 7.2.9 Chief General Manager of DISCOM concerned Member 7.2.10 Engineer-in-Chief, R&B or his nominee Member 7.2.11 Engineer-in-Chief, HMWS&SB or his nominee Member 7.2.12 Nominee of Telangana Industrialist Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 7.2.13 Nominee of Confederation of Indian Industry(CII) Member 7.2.14 Joint Director of industries Member Convener 8.0.0. COMPUTATION OF FIXED CAPITAL INVESTMENT: 8.1.0. LAND : 8.1.1. Cost of land required for the successful working of the new industrial enterprise would normally be computed by considering value of five times the plinth area of the factory building constructed and not exceeding the approved project cost. However, in respect of enterprises/industries where the open land requirements would be large due to the specific nature industry, SLC may consider allowing land in excess of 5 times of plinth area on case to case basis. However cost of site leveling, clearance, laying of roads, etc. will not be considered for capital cost. 8.1.2. Value of leased land will not be taken into account for capital cost. 8.1.3. Sale deed should be registered in the name of Enterprise/Industry/Proprietor as the case may be, for sanction of any incentives / concessions. 8.1.4. Lands inherited would not be considered for capital cost computation. 8.1.5. Stamp duty and Transfer duty component will not be taken in to account while computing the fixed capital investment for sanction of Investment Subsidy. 8.1.6. In case of availing 25% land cost on lands purchased in TSIIC developed IEs/IDA/Industrial Parks, the land cost will not be taken in to account while computing the fixed capital investment for sanction of Investment Subsidy. 8.2.0. FACTORY BUILDING: 8.2.1. The value of factory building constructions will be limited to the approved project cost. Values of leased building will not the taken into account. Cost of buildings will be computed as per the APSFC-Telangana unit approved rates of construction / year of construction or the actual cost, whichever is lower. The items of civil works which are permitted for computation towards eligible cost are: 8.2.2. Main Factory Shed. 8.2.3. Raw Material and finished products godown. 8.2.4. Office room and Lab room. 8.2.5. Cooling water ponds. 8.2.6. Boiler shed and generator room. 17 8.2.7. Effluent treatment ponds, etc. 8.2.8. Overhead Tank, bore-wells, and pump house and sump. 8.2.9. Fencing and Gate. 8.2.10. Architect fee and supervision charges. 8.2.11. Compound wall. 8.2.12. Canteen. 8.2.13. Rest House. 8.2.14. Time Office. 8.2.15. Cycle / Vehicle Stand. 8.2.16. Security Shed. 8.2.17. Toilet room and sanitary fittings. 8.2.18. The total value of items at 8.2.11 to 8.2.17 and similar items shall not exceed 10% of the total value of civil works. Total value of the civil works means 8.2.1 to 8.2.10 only (within the approved project cost). The plinth area of the civil works based on the construction made by the industrial enterprise from item 8.2.1 to 8.2.10 only. 8.3.0. PLANT AND MACHINERY: 8.3.1. The computable cost should be within the approved project cost, subject to limitations setout in the following paras. 8.3.2. Value of plant, machinery and equipment installed for undertaking production of approved items and the value of tools (other than consumables) Jigs, Dies, Moulds necessary for production of approved items will be taken into account. Leased plant and equipment is not eligible for incentives. 8.3.3. Enterprise/Industry setup with total second hand machinery would not be eligible for any incentives/concessions. However in case of Enterprise/Industry setup with imported machinery, value of 100% imported second hand plant, machinery and equipment will be considered as new indigenous machinery, if it is imported directly by the industrial Enterprise. In case of indigenous second hand machinery purchased by the industrial enterprise, such value should not exceed 25% of the total value of plant and machinery. The value of indigenous second hand machinery will not be computed towards fixed eligible capital investment for incentives. To, decide the percentage of second hand machinery, market value as certified by C.A. will be taken into account, subject to such machinery having a minimum of further six (6) years life for Micro, Small Enterprises and twelve (12) years for Medium Enterprise and Large Industries certified by a Licensed Engineer. New Enterprise/industry setting up with a mix up of new / second hand machinery shall be subjected to these norms. 8.3.4. Expenditure on Technical Consultancy / Feasibility study including turn-key charges will be considered towards the fixed capital investment, provided they are part of the approved project cost, capitalised and certified by a Chartered Accountant, but limited to 10% of the total cost of plant machinery and equipment installed. 8.3.5. The value of plant, machinery and equipment procured by new industrial Enterprise from Telangana State Financial Corporation(TSFC) / Telangana State Industrial Development Corporation(TSIDC) / Nationalised Banks pertaining to disposed off Enterprise/industry will be taken into account, provided such machinery has not enjoyed any incentives under any of the earlier incentive schemes. Only depreciated value of such plant, machinery and equipment, as certified by Chartered Accountant subject to such machinery having a minimum of further six (6) years life for Micro, Small Enterprises and twelve (12) years for Medium Enterprise and Large Industries certified by a Licensed Engineer, will be taken into account for computing towards eligible fixed capital investment. 8.3.6. In respect of new industries Enterprises setup in the premises belonging to disposed off Enterprises from any Financial Institution / disposed off enterprises/industries, if the earlier Enterprises availed incentives, only new assets created with fresh investment would be eligible for incentives. 18 8.3.7. Value of self-fabricated machinery by the new industrial Enterprise/Industry will have to be certified by a Chartered Engineer or Engineer of the term lending institution concerned for the purpose of computing the eligible fixed capital investment. 8.3.8.0. The new industrial Enterprises set up for "Heavy Structural Fabrications" will be considered for grant of incentives only in case the following minimum plant, machinery and equipment are installed. 8.3.8.1. Gantry 5/10 tons capacity with chain pulley block or EOT/HOT crane 5/10 tons capacity. 8.3.8.2. Arc welding Transformer with welding Generators or Rectifiers. 8.3.8.3. Gas welding and cutting equipment. 8.3.8.4. Electrical tools namely; Grinder, Rivettor or Drilling Machinery or Pneumatic tools with air compressor. 8.3.8.5. Pillar type drilling machine 1" / 1.1/2" capacity. 8.3.8.6. Pug cutting equipment for cutting heavy sections viz. Angles, Plates and Channels. 8.3.8.7. Drafting machine and drawing office equipment (optional). 8.3.8.8. Any other latest equipment to perform heavy structural fabrication in lieu of any of the above equipment. 8.3.9.0. ITEMS NOT COMPUTABLE TOWARDS FIXED CAPITAL INVESTMENT. 8.3.9.1. Working capital, raw material, stores and all consumables including spare tools, etc. 8.3.9.2. Value of the Motor Vehicles. 8.3.9.3. Pre-operative expenses, advances, expenditure not supported by payment of bills wherever necessary. 8.3.9.4. Investment made outside the approved project cost and items not covered by approved project. 8.3.9.5. Fixed assets which form part of project cost but not created within 6 months from the date of commercial production or the date of filling the claim whichever is earlier, if it is financed enterprises/industry. 8.3.9.6. Term loan sanctioned by the Financial Institution after date of commercial production. 8.3.9.7. In case of self-financed Enterprise/industry, the fixed assets created after the date of commencement of Commercial Production and also payment made after date of commencement of Commercial Production, such value. 9.0. GENERAL 9.1. The claim applications filed after six months but before one year from the specified Date as defined for sanction of incentives will be treated as belated claims and are eligible for 50% of all the incentives. All claims filed beyond one year are not eligible . for any incentives 9.2. All eligible Enterprise/Industry should furnish a registered lease deed for a minimum period of eight (8) years covering the first six (6) years production period from the date of commencement of production. 9.3. If any Micro and Small Enterprise new or taking up expansion/diversification had availed investment subsidy under any scheme i.e. any similar incentives of State Government / Government of India/Institutions/Agencies already availed/ Government of India incentives which may be announced from time to time and other such incentives extended by any other Government Agency, the total subsidy would be limited to Rs.75.00 Lakhs to SC/STs and Women SC/ST Entrepreneurs as per the limits prescribed in the T-PRIDE. 9.4. In case of existing Industrial Enterprise setting up a new industrial Enterprise with separate identifiable investment, the words 'SEPARATE IDENTIFIABLE INVESTMENT’ shall means that the Enterprise/Industry should not have any production linkage with the existing manufacturing process and the product should be a separate product itself with independent marketability. The new Enterprise/Industry should be in a separate building, should maintain separate books of accounts and the project should be appraised independently by financial institution as a viable project. A new project will not, however, be regarded as a "Separate Identifiable Investment" if 19 the utilities of the existing Enterprise/Industry like water, electricity, steam and pollution control systems are extended to the new Enterprise/Industry (Government memo No.27099/IP/A2/97-2, dated:15/06/1998). 9.5. If any existing Industrial Enterprise setting up a new industrial Enterprise with separate identifiable investment for the same end product/new product at different location in the same name it will be treated as new Enterprise/Industry (separately identifiable investment), even though there is no separate Sales Tax registration number (VAT) and separate marketability, since the Sales Tax Department is issuing only one Sales Tax registration number (VAT) for one dealer even they have more than one Enterprises/Industries within the state. However they have to maintain separate books of accounts for each location. 10.0. INELIGIBILITY : 10.1. New industrial Enterprise being set up within the limits of Grater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation excluding existing Industrial Estates/Parks, Industrial Estates notified, Industrial Estates to be notified and commence commercial production on or after 01/01/2015 but before 31/03/2019. However, the Industrial Enterprises set up at Sanathnagar, Azamabad, Chandulal Baradari and Kattedan Industrial Estates are not eligible under T-PRIDE Incentive Scheme 2014. 10.2. New Industrial Enterprise established with Plant and Machinery on lease are not eligible for incentives/concessions. 10.3. New Industrial Enterprise established with second hand machinery are not eligible for incentives/concessions except where the cost of such machinery does not exceed 25% of the total cost of plant and machinery. 10.4. Composites industrial enterprise set up for manufacture of an eligible item along with an ineligible item are not eligible for incentives/concessions except when the proportion of ineligible items in the total production is less than 10% in value of the total turnover as per G.O.Ms. No. 20 Industries & Commerce (IP) Department, dated: 31/01/1997. 10.5. New Integrated Steel Plants which produces Steel Billets, Coils, Strips, Slabs or Alloy Steels starting with iron ore / scrap and using the liquid metal produced to make Billets, Coils, Strips, Slabs or Alloy Steels any melting Enterprises/Industries involved part production are eligible for all other incentives / benefits under T-PRIDE except power cost reimbursement. However, manufacture of Sponge Iron and Pig Iron are eligible for reimbursement of power cost including other incentives under T-PRIDE. 11.0. CHANGE OF CONSTITUTION/MANAGEMENT/ NAME OR STYLE OF INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE/INDUSTRY: The Industrial Enterprise that availed incentives/concessions should obtain the No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the financing institutions concerned in respect of aided Enterprise/industry and Certificate of incorporation from Registrar of Companies (ROC) within the first six (6) years in respect of Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years in respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries/Mega Projects from the date of Commencement of Commercial Production, before seeking the approval of State Level Committee for any change of the constitution/Management/name & style of the Industrial Enterprise. 12.0. LEASE OF ENTERPRISE/INDUSTRY: In case of the Industrial Enterprise that availed incentives/concessions whose management is not able to run the Enterprise/Industry and intent to lease out to other management within the first six (6) years in respect of Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years in respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries/Mega Projects from the date of Commencement of Commercial Production should obtain the No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the financing institutions concerned in respect of aided Enterprise/industry before seeking the approval of State Level Committee. 13.0. CHANGE OF LOCATION OF INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES SANCTIONED INCENTIVES/CONCESSIONS: 13.1. Any Micro/Small Enterprises proposing to shift their Enterprises within the District, they should obtain No Objection Certificate from the financing institutions concerned in respect of aided Enterprises/industries before seeking the approval of District Level Committee concerned. In case of shifting of any industrial enterprise outside the District, they should obtain prior approval of the financing institutions concerned in respect of aided Enterprises/industries before seeking the approval of State Level 20 Committee. In respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries proposing to shift within the District or outside the District should obtain prior approval of financing institution if it is aided and then approach Commissioner of Industries for permission of the State Level Committee. Shifting of Enterprise/industry outside the State is not allowed. 13.2. In respect of Self Financed Enterprises/industries: In respect of Micro/Small Enterprises proposing to shift their Enterprises within the District, they should obtain prior approval of District Level Committee Concerned. In case of shifting of any industrial enterprise outside the District they should obtain prior approval of State Level Committee through the General Manager, District Industries Centre Concerned. In respect of Medium Enterprise and Large industry (unaided or Self Financed) proposing to shift their enterprise/industry either within the District or outside the District, should obtain prior permission from State Level Committee. Shifting of enterprise/industry outside the State is not allowed. 14.0. MERGER/AMALGAMATION OF THE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES: 14.1. Prior approval of the State Level Committee is necessary for any merger/amalgamation of Enterprises/industries. The Public and Private Limited Companies seeking merger/amalgamation of their group of companies shall submit an application to Commissioner of Industries through General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned along with the necessary orders of appropriate forum under Companies Act, No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Financing Institution, amended Letter of Intent/Industrial License/Industrial Entrepreneur Memorandum and Incorporation Certificate from the Registrar of Companies. 14.2. The Partnership Firm shall submit No Objection Certificate from their Financing Institution and Firm Registration. The Proprietary concern shall submit NOC from the Financing Institution. 15.0. CHANGE OF LINE OF ACTIVITY/INCLUSION OF ADDITIONAL LINE OF ACTIVITIES: If an enterprise/industry starts manufacturing new eligible items without any additional machinery or equipment, with the same plant & machinery, then such items shall be permitted for availing sale tax reimbursement within the period of five (5) years in respect of Micro & Small Enterprises and seven (7) years in respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries/Mega Projects from the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production of the original product. They should obtain prior approval of the State Level Committee before taking up production of such new items. 16.0. BREAK IN PRODUCTION: The Industrial Enterprises obtaining incentives should be in continuous production for a period of six (6) years in respect of Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years in respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries/Mega Projects from the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production failing which all incentives/concessions sanctioned are liable to be cancelled and the incentives/concessions already availed are liable for recovery. In this regard, the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned should monitor the progress of these Enterprises and submit report to the Commissioner of Industries on half-yearly basis. Break-in-production upto a period of three (3) years due to the reasons beyond its control such as shortage of raw-materials, power and change of management, etc. may be condoned by State Level Committee (SLC) on merits and such break in production period will be extended. Any break-in- production beyond three (3) years will result in extending the six (6) years in respect of Micro & Small Enterprises and ten (10) years in respect of Medium Enterprises & Large industries/Mega Projects continuous production condition by the period of such break. 17.0. PROCEDURE TO BE ADHERED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, DISTRICT INDUSTRIES CENTRES: 17.1. The General Managers of District Industries Centres shall maintain a separate registers a) Receipt of Incentive Applications, b) Sanctions & Releases 17.2. All files pertaining to sanctioned DLC cases must be recorded and kept for a period of 10 years, and made available for inspection of audit / inspecting authorities. Files pertaining to audit objection if any, shall be kept in record till such objections are cleared/deleted from the audit paras. 21 18.0. PROCEDURE FOR SANCTION OF INCENTIVES: 18.1. On receipt of the incentive claim application from the industrial Enterprises through MEESEVA for sanction of incentives, the DIC officials should provide an inspection Date for the Enterprise/Industry in the portal which is sent as an SMS to the Enterprise/Industry. 18.2. The DIC officials may collect &verify all the records/documents as per the PART-B of verification-cum-recommendation of the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned & Check List duly following the procedure at the Time of Inspection only: (a) Micro Enterprises should be jointly inspected by Assistant Director/Deputy Director & Industrial Promotion Officer concerned. (b) Small Enterprises should be jointly inspected by Assistant Director/Deputy Director/General Manager along with Industrial Promotion Officer concerned. (c) Medium Enterprises/Large Industries/Mega Projects should be jointly inspected by the General Manager along with Assistant Director/Deputy Director concerned. 18.3. If it is an aided or self financed Enterprise/Industry, the inspecting officers should verify all the machinery as per machinery list with bills, payment proofs and certify on the list of machinery as follows: “Verified Plant & Machinery. Found tallying with the list. Duly erected and put to use and is required for manufacturing the approved lines of activities. There are no second hand machinery items in the list”. If any second hand machinery exists in the list, it can be certified accordingly . 18.4. If it is an aided Enterprise/Industry, the financial institution & General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned or Inspecting Officer should certify that “this is to certify that from the above list of plant & machinery Sl. No. ____ to _____ are new and Sl.No._____ to _____ is second hand machinery. 18.5. After Field Inspection of the Unit, it will be placed in the DIPC meeting chaired by the District Collector for Rejection/Sanction of the Incentive. 18.6. In respect of DLC cases, while recommending sanctioned cases to Commissioner of Industries for release of sanctioned Incentives amount, the General Manager after updating information on the Mee seva portal should Certify the same in communication to Commissioner of Industries mentioning “Sanction information in respect of all units approved in DIPC in its meeting dated …. and is also updated on mee seva portal on…… (Date)”. Not complying the updating of information on the portal will result in non-inclusion of the District Investment Promotion Committee (DIPC) approved cases for release of incentives. 18.7. In respect of State Level Committee (SLC) cases, while forwarding/recommending the application to Commissioner of Industries, the General Manager, District Industries Centre (DIC) while updating information on Mee seva portal ,should certify the same in the forwarding letter stating “information in respect of the unit is updated on Mee seva portal on …….(date)”. Not complying with updating of information on the portal will result in return of application to the DIC without further processing. 18.8.0 At Commissioner of Industries Level 18.8.1 In respect of State Level Committee cases, the Joint Director (II & Sub-Plan) will ensure updating of information On the Mee seva portal as soon as the cases are approved in the State Level Committee, so as to ensure availability of sanctioned information to the unit holders as well as the General Managers Concerned. 18.8.2 Scrutiny/Verification Committees at the State Level and District Level are constituted for Scrutinizing and recommending the claims for these incentives to the State Level/ District Level Committees. 18.8.3 Committees at the State Level and District Level are constituted for sanction/rejection of the Claims for these incentives. 22 19.0 STATE LEVEL SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEES 19.1.0 SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR INVESTMENT SUBSIDY UNDER VARIOUS INCENTIVES/CONCESSIONS 19.1.1 Additional Director of Industries Chairman 19.1.2 President of Federation of Telangana & Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce and Industry or his nominee. Member 19.1.3 President of Federation of Telangana Small Industries Associations (FETSIA) or his nominee. Member 19.1.4 Convener, State Level Bankers Committee or his nominee. Member 19.1.5 General Manager, A.P State Financial Corporation (Telangana Unit), Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 19.1.6 Nominee of Managing Director, Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, Hyderabad Member 19.1.7 Nominee of Inspector General, Registration & Stamps, Revenue Department Member 19.1.8 Nominee of Chief Commissioner, Land Administration Member 19.1.9 Nominee of Federation of Small & Medium enterprises of India Member 19.1.10 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Member or his nominee 19.1.11 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.1.12 Joint Director of industries Member- Convener 19.2.0 SCRUTINY / VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF POWER COST 19.2.1 Additional Director of Industries, Hyderabad. Chairman 19.2.2 President of Federation of Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry or his nominee. Member 19.2.3 President of Federation of Telangana Small Industries Member Associations (FETSIA) or his nominee. 19.2.4 Convener, State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) or his Member nominee. 19.2.5 General Manager, A.P. State Financial Corporation (Telangana Unit), Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 19.2.6 Nominee of Managing Director, Telangana State Central Member Power Distribution Corporation Ltd. (TSSCPDCL), Hyderabad 19.2.7 Nominee of Managing Director, Telangana State Northern Member Power Distribution Corporation Ltd. TSNPDCL, Warangal 19.2.8 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India (FSME-India) Member 19.2.9 Nominee of federation of Small &Medium enterprises of India Member 19.2.10 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.2.11 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Member Member Commerce & Industry or his nominee 19.2.12 J oint Director of Industries Member convener 23 19.3.0 SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF COMMERCIAL TAX 19.3.1 Additional Director of Industries, Hyderabad. Chairman 19.3.2 Joint Secretary to Government, Finance Department Member 19.3.3 President of Federation of Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry or his nominee. Member 19.3.4 President of Federation of Telangana Small Industries Associations (FETSIA) or his nominee. Member 19.3.5 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India(FSME-India) Member 19.3.6 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Member or his nominee 19.3.7 Convener, State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) or his nominee. Member 19.3.8 General Manager, Telangana State Financial Corporation, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 19.3.9 Nominee of Commissioner, Commercial Taxes Department Member 19.3.10 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.3.11 Joint Director of industries Member- Convener 19.4.0 DISTRICT LEVEL SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEES 19.4.1.0 SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR INVESTMENT SUBSIDY UNDER VARIOUS INCENTIVES/CONCESSIONS 19.4.1.1 General Manager, District Industries Centre Chairman 19.4.1.2 Representative from Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Member 19.4.1.3 Representative from Federation of Telangana Small Industries Associations (FETSIA) Member 19.4.1.4 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Member 19.4.1.5 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India(FSME-India) Member 19.4.1.6 Lead District Manager or his nominee. Member 19.4.1.7 Manager, Telangana State Financial Corporation concerned District Member 19.4.1.8 Zonal Manager, T.S., Industrial Infrastructure Corporation concerned District or his nominee. Member 19.4.1.9 District Registration & Stamps, Revenue Department or his nominee. Member 19.4.1.10 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.4.1.11 Deputy Director concerned District Member- Convener 19.4.2.0 SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF POWER COST 19.4.2.1 General Manager, District Industries Centre Chairman 19.4.2.2 Representative from Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Member 19.4.2.3 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Member 19.4.2.4 Representative from Federation of Telangana Small Industries Associations (FETSIA) Member 19.4.2.5 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of 24 India(FSME-India) Member 19.4.2.6 Lead District Manager or his nominee. Member 19.4.2.7 Manager, Telangana State Financial Corporation, concerned District Member 19.4.2.8 Distribution Company (DISCOM) concerned Member 19.4.2.9 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.4.2.10 Deputy Director concerned District Member- Convener 19.4.3.0 SCRUTINY/VERIFICATION COMMITTEE FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF COMMERCIAL TAX 19.4.3.1 General Manager, District Industries Centre Chairman 19.4.3.2 Representative from Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Member Commerce and Industry. 19.4.3.3 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Member 19.4.3.4 Representative from Federation of Telangana Small Industries Member Associations (FETSIA) 19.4.3.5 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India(FSME-India) Member 19.4.3.6 Lead District Manager or his nominee. Member 19.4.3.7 Manager, Telangana State Financial Corporation, District concerned District Member 19.4.3.8 Commercial Tax Officer, Commercial Taxes Department or his nominee. Member 19.4.3.9 Nominee of Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation(TIF) Member 19.4.3.10 Deputy Director concerned District Member- Convener 20.0 POWERS OF SCRUTINY/VERIVICATION COMMITTEES OF DLC/SLC. 20.1. After receipt of claim application along with Part-B of verification-cum- recommendation, the Member-Convenor will prepare the appraisal note for each case in the form prescribed for placing before respective Scrutiny-cum-Verification Committee for recommending to the State Level/District Level Committee, as the case may be. 20.2. The Scrutiny-cum-Verification Committees will meet as often as required, but not less than once in two months. The Member - Convenor will arrange to record the minutes of each meeting, get them duly approved by the Additional Director concerned/General Manager concerned and will be placed before State Level/District Level Committee. 20.3. After receipt of Scrutiny-cum-Verification Committee recommendations, the Member-Convenor of State Level/District Level Committee will prepare the agenda note for placing before State Level/District Level Committee for taking decision. 21.0. IN RESPECT OF SELF FINANCE ENTERPRISES: 21.1. All the Self Financed Industrial Enterprises should be inspected by respective Multi Disciplinary Committee / Standing Scrutiny Committee as per G.O.Ms. No.319 I & C (IP) Department, dated:29/12/2004 and the Committee should verify the genuineness of machinery to avoid bogus or false claims. 21.2. The Multi Disciplinary Committee at district level shall inspect the Industrial Enterprises with investment on Plant & Machinery upto Rs. 1.00 Crore with the following members: (a) Assistant Commercial Tax Officer (ACTO) from Commercial Taxes Department (b) Manager, TSFC District concerned (c) General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned. 25 21.3. The Standing Scrutiny Committee (SSC) shall inspect the Industrial Enterprises with investment on Plant & Machinery over and above of Rs.1.00 Crore with the following members: (i) Commercial Tax Officer concerned (CTO) from Commercial Taxes Department (ii) General Manager, APSFC Telangana unit of concerned District (iii) Additional Director from Industries Department – Convenor 21.0. The Sub-Committee of State Level Committee (SLC) will assist by inspecting the units referred by SLC for taking a decision. (a) President, FETSIA (b) General Manager, APSFC-Telangana Unit concerned District (c) Any other member as decided by SLC based on the need. (d) Additional Director from Industries Department – Member Convener 21.4.0. STATE LEVEL COMMITTEE ON INCENTIVES – LIST OF MEMBERS: 21.4.1 Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. Chairman 21.4.2 Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary/Deputy Secretary to Government, Finance & Planning (Fin. Wing) Dept., Dealing Member with the subject 21.4.3 Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary/Deputy Secretary to Government, Industries & Commerce (IP) Department Member 21.4.4 President of Federation of Telangana & A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry Member 21.4.5 The Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Member 21.4.6 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry or his nominee Member 21.4.7 The President of Federation of Telangana. Small Industries Associations (FETSIA) Member 21.4.8 The Chairman, Telangana Spinning Mills Association, Hyderabad. Member 21.4.9 Managing Director, Telangana State Financial Corporation, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 21.4.10 Managing Director, T.S. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 21.4.11 Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 21.4.12 Commissioner of Tribal Welfare, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 21.4.13 Commissioner of Social Welfare, Hyderabad or his nominee. Member 21.4.14 Director, Commercial, TSTRANSCO or his nominee Member 21.4.15 Commissioner & Inspector General, Registration & Stamps, Revenue Department or his nominee. Member 21.4.16 Member Secretary, TSPCB or his nominee. Member 21.4.17 Commissioner, Transport or his nominee Member 21.4.18 Chief Commissioner, Land Administration or his nominee Member 21.4.19 Convener, SLBC Member 21.4.20 Nominee of Syndicate Bank Member 21.4.21 Nominee of State Bank of India Member 21.4.22 Nominee of State Bank of Hyderabad Member 21.4.23 Nominee of Andhra Bank Member 26 21.4.24 Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation (TIF) Member 21.4.25 Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India (FSME- India) Member 21.4.26 Additional Director of Industries dealing with the subject of Member Incentives Convener 21.4.27 The above Committee shall scrutinize and sanction the claims of enterprises / industries involving eligible fixed capital investment on Plant & machinery above Rs. 25.00 lakhs in case of Manufacturing unit and above 10 lakhs in case of Service enterprise 21.5.0. DISTRICT LEVEL COMMITTEE ON INCENTIVES – LIST OF MEMBERS: 21.5.1 District Collector Chairman 21.5.2 Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Member 21.5.3 District Treasury Officer Member 21.5.4 Project Officer, I.T.D.A. of the concerned District Member OR District Tribal Welfare Officers of other Districts 21.5.5 Executive Officer, District Scheduled Castes Co-op. Finance Corporation Member 21.5.6 Branch Manager, Telangana State Financial Corporation, Member 21.5.7 Zonal Manager, T.S. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Member 21.5.8 Nominee of the President of Federation of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce and Industry Member 21.5.9 President of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry or his nominee Member 21.5.10 Nominee of Federation of Small and Medium Enterprises of India(FSME-India) Member 21.5.11 Nominee of the President of FETSIA Member 21.5.12 Chief Environmental Engineer, TSPCB Member 21.5.13 Representative of RDO Member 21.5.14 Superintending Engineer, TSTRANSCO Member 21.5.16 Nominee of Regional Transport Authority Member 21.5.17 Lead District Manager Member 21.5.18 Telangana Industrialists Welfare Federation (TIF) Member 21.5.19 General Manger, District Industries Centre Member Convener 21.5.20 The above Committee shall scrutinize and sanction the claims of the Micro Enterprises (as defined by the Government of India from time to time) of the District concerned involving cost of plant & machinery not exceed Rs. 25.00 lakhs (including the original investment in case of expansions and diversifications) in case of manufacturing enterprises not exceeding 10 lakhs in case of Service enterprises. 22.0. POWERS OF STATE LEVEL AND DISTRICT LEVEL COMMITTEES. 22.1. The State Level and District Level Committees will meet as often as required, but not less than once in two months. The Member- Convenor will arrange to record the minutes of each meeting, get them duly approved by the Chair-person and communicate attested copies to all the members. 22.2. The decisions of the State Level Committee shall be final in scrutinizing, deciding the eligible investment, sanctioning the incentives. It can also review the decisions where ever is necessary. In case of any doubt/ambiguity on any issue or item covered by these guidelines for implementing the scheme of IIPP, the decision/interpretation of 27 State Level Committee is final and binding on all concerned. The District Level Committee will adopt norms evolved by the State Level Committee. 22.3. The SLC has the powers to condone the Break-in-production period of industrial Enterprises upto three (3) years. However, such Break-in-production period should be due to the reasons beyond the control of the Management such as shortage of raw- materials, power and change of management, etc. 22.4. State Level Committee will review the working of the scheme and release of funds. 23.1.0. WORK TO BE ATTENDED BY THE MEMBER - CONVENOR (SLC) 23.1.1. Convening the SLC meetings, drawing up the minutes of the meetings and communicating these to the members with the approval of the Chairperson; 23.1.2. Disbursement of funds to the Enterprises/Industries sanctioned observing the chronological order of sanctions within the set pattern and norms approved by SLC, if necessary. 23.1.3. Arranging maintenance of records of sanctions / disbursements in the manner prescribed. The incentive sanction register should be in the form prescribed. 23.1.4. Monitoring effective implementation of the scheme. 23.2.0. WORK TO BE ATTENDED BY THE MEMBER - CONVENOR (DLC) 23.2.1. Convening the District Level Committee meetings, drawing up the minutes of the meetings and communication to the members and the Commissioner of Industries with the approval of Chairperson. 23.2.2. Maintaining necessary accounts and registers and furnish details as and when called for by the SLC / Commissioner of Industries and producing to the audit. The incentive sanction register should be in the form prescribed. 23.2.3. Arranging periodical inspections of the beneficiary Enterprises and send reports on continuity in working etc. to the Commissioner of Industries. 24.0. PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENT OF SUBSIDY: 24.1. After the sanction of subsidy by SLC, the Joint Director/Deputy Director concerned shall communicate the sanction through intimation letters in the form prescribed to the individual industrial enterprises. 24.2. In respect of DLC sanctions, the General Managers shall communicate the sanction through intimation letters in the form prescribed to the individual industrial enterprises and shall forward the proposal to the Commissioner of Industries in statement in the form prescribed. 24.3. In respect of SLC sanction the General Managers after receipt of individual proceedings preceded by consolidated proceedings shall obtain an agreement bond in prescribed proforma, advanced stamped receipt and assignment letter and forward the same in original to the Commissioner of Industries after satisfying himself on the physical verification that the Enterprises/Industry is working continuously, the assets are intact and there is no change in the management, no change of financial institution and also the Enterprises/Industry complying with the conditions, if any, imposed in the consolidated proceedings. 24.4. The General Managers shall ensure that in case no bridge loan is availed by the beneficiary Enterprise/Industry, the assignment of investment subsidy must be in favour of the term lending institution and in the case of joint financing it must be in favour of the lead institution. 24.5. In case of disbursements of Reimbursements of Stamp duty and Transfer duty, rebate in land cost in IEs/IDAs, Power consumption charges, Commercial Tax, such reimbursement amounts will be paid to the industrial Enterprises concerned, in favour of the Enterprise/Industry through RTGS/NEFT to account. The GM, DICs on receipt of the individual proceedings shall obtain a self certification, utilization certificates in prescribed proforma and advanced stamped receipt from the Enterprise/Industry and forward the same in original to Commissioner of Industries after physically verifying the running of the Enterprise/Industry. 28 24.6. Government will allocate the funds for disbursement of incentives under the scheme. The funds so allocated will be drawn and kept in the P.D. Account of Commissioner of Industries. (as per G.O.Ms.No.162, Industries & Commerce (IP) Department, Dt. 04/12/2013) 24.7. The disbursements are made in a bunch of cases through consolidated proceeding separately for SLC sanctions and DLC sanctions observing the chronological order of such meetings held. The consolidated proceedings indicating the name of the industry, amount sanctioned and amount released to the Accounts Officer, O/o Commissioner of Industries. 24.8. In respect of SLC sanctions, after the issue of individual proceedings issued by the Member Convener of SLC, in favour of industrial enterprises in the form prescribed under copies to Financial Institutions which have sanctioned term loans and working capital loans and General Manager, DIC concerned. After receipt of assignment letter and advance stamped receipt, the Commissioner of Industries, shall release the subsidy amount to the individual Enterprises Account through RTGS/NEFT (in whose favour assignment letter was given by the industrial enterprise account) and send the same to the respective Financial Institution direct under intimation to the beneficiary. In case of industrial Enterprises which have availed any bridge loans against the anticipated subsidy, the subsidy amount shall be released first to the Financial Institution which has sanctioned and released bridge loan, to discharge the liability in full against such sanction and balance amount, if any, would be released in the manner prescribed above. 24.9. In respect of DLC sanctions, the General Managers, DIC shall be forwarding the sanctions of DLCs to the Additional Director of Industries and Member-Secretary of SLC along with statement in the form prescribed, individual proceedings sanctioning after the issue of consolidated proceedings, individual proceedings sanctioning after the issue of consolidated proceedings, individual proceedings are issued in favour of individual Enterprises in the form prescribed under copies to the Financial Institutions which have sanctioned term loans and working capital loans and General Manager, DIC concerned. After receipt of assignment letter and advance stamped receipt, the Commissioner of Industries, shall release the subsidy amount to the individual Enterprises account through RTGS/NEFT (in whose favour assignment letter was given by the beneficiary industrial Enterprise Account). In case of industrial enterprise which have availed any bridge loans against the anticipated subsidy, the subsidy amount shall be released first to the Financial Institution which has sanctioned and released bridge loan, to discharge the liability in full against such sanction and balance amount, if any, would be released in the manner prescribed above. The subsidy amount released under the scheme is treated as front end subsidy and Bank/Financial institution can only adjust the liability as on date i.e. overdue amount and release the balance amount as per the procedure in vogue and total subsidy released shall not be adjusted towards outstanding loan amount. 24.10 Wherever the General Manager, DICs finds an industrial enterprise sick, closed, change of management taken place, change of financial institution etc. or for any other reason not worthy of receiving subsidy till further examination, the Commissioner of Industries shall not disburse the subsidy to such Enterprise/industry on written intimation given to them by the General Managers DICs. In case of above two situations, the subsidy shall be disbursed only after further clearance given by the State Level Committee. 25.0. FUNCTIONS TO BE ATTENDED BY GENERAL MANAGER, DICS: 25.1. Receiving and processing of claim applications and to ensure for placing the same before the DLCs within a month in respect of DLC cases and submission to the Commissioner of Industries within one month in respect of SLC cases, with all necessary documents along with inspection report. 25.2. To obtain stamped receipts and assignment letters in the appropriate forms besides inspecting the Enterprises/industries to ensure working of the Enterprise/industry with the assets intact, no change in the management, no change of financial institution etc., before disbursement of subsidies. 25.3. To initiate action to recover the incentives wherever warranted. 25.4. The General Manger, District Industries Centre shall receive the incentive applications and issue acknowledgement to the Enterprise / Industries. 29 26.0 RECOVERIES OF SANCTIONED INCENTIVES UNDER THE SCHEME. Incentives/concessions granted to an industrial enterprise shall be liable to be recovered in the following circumstances. 26.1. If the incentives/concessions are obtained by the industrial enterprise by misrepresentation of essential facts or by furnishing of false information or suppressions of facts or by submission of false/fake documents etc., 26.2. If the industrial enterprise goes out of production within six (6) years from the date of commencement of commercial production, except in case where the Enterprise/Industry remains out of production for short period upto 12 months due to the reasons beyond its control such as shortage of raw-materials, power and change of management, bills receivables, recession in the market etc. 26.3. If the industrial enterprise fails to furnish the prescribed statements and/ or information when it is called upon to furnish. 26.4. If the industrial enterprise effects change of management without prior approval from the financing institution concerned and the State Level Committee. 26.5. If the industrial enterprise shifts a part or whole of the industrial Enterprise/Industry, or lease out the whole or part of premises or the plant and machinery after receiving a part or whole of the incentives without prior approval of the District Level Committee/State Level Committee. 26.6. If the whole or part of the industrial enterprise is sold without the prior approval of the State Level Committee. 26.7. If the industrial enterprise enters into a contract of any nature whatsoever by transferring the Management, without the prior approval of the State Level Committee. 26.8. If the industrial enterprise goes for additional power load/expansion or diversification of the Enterprise/Industry or change of line of activity already considered for sanction of incentives without prior approval of State Level Committee. 26.9. In the event of recoveries for reasons arising mentioned above, they shall be recovered treating them as arrears of Land Revenue under A.P. Revenue Recovery Act, 1864. 27.0 FURNISHING OF STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT/INFORMATION BY ELIGIBLE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES: Industrial Enterprises, which obtain incentives under the scheme, shall furnish certified copy of audited accounts including Balance Sheet before 30th June of the succeeding year to the disbursing agencies i.e. to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, of District concerned. Such statement should be furnished for a period of minimum six (6) years. Further, industrial Enterprises should also furnish details of production, sales, employment, etc., in the proforma prescribed to the General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned as an Annual Return before 30th June of the succeeding year and obtain acknowledgment thereof. However, Enterprises which are released capital subsidy not exceeding Rs.1,00,000/- may furnish only the Annual Performance Report in the proforma prescribed to the General Manager, DIC concerned as an Annual Return before 30th June of the succeeding year and obtain acknowledgment thereof for a period of six (6) years after going into commercial production. 28.0 INTERPRETATIONS: When any matter arises for the purpose of interpretation on which State Level Committee (SLC) could not take a decision or in case where any suggestions are made outside the scope of SLC in regard to implementation of the scheme, such matters shall be referred to the Government in Industries & Commerce Department, Government of Telangana and the decision of the Government shall be final. ********* 30 ANNEXURE: VI APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR CLAIMING REIMBURSEMENT OF STAMP DUTY / TRANSFER DUTY / MORTGAGE DUTY / LAND CONVESERSION CHARGES / REIMBURSEMENT OF LAND COST PURCHASED IN IE/IDA/IP’s UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Enterprise/Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0. Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category: (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprise Small Enterprise Medium Enterprise Large Industry Mega Project (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. 3.3 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.4 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: (cid:57) 4. Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Expansion Diversification 8 Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building 31 Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 6. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project Note: Enterprise/Industry involving at least 25% enhancement on fixed capital investment as well as Capacity are eligible for claiming incentives under Expansion/Diversification projects: Note: Sale deed/Lease deed should be registered in the name of Enterprise/Industry or Proprietor of the Industry/Enterprise. (in Sq. Mtrs.) (in Sq. Mtrs.) . 7.0 Land purchased Plinth area of the Building (as per the registered sale deed) (as per the approved building plan by the HUDA/DT&CP/IALA 7.1. 5 times of the plinth area of factory buildings: Sq.Mtrs. 7.2. Area required for the factory as per the appraisal: Sq.Mtrs. 7.3. Area required for the factory as per the norms of APPCB or any other State Government Department: Sq.Mtrs. 8.0. Nature of transaction/deed registered for Indl. use (sale / lease or lease-cum-sale Transfer deed/financial deeds and mortgages etc.). 9.0. Date of registration: 10.0. Name of Sub-Registrar Office, where registered: 11.0 Stamp Duty/Transfer duty / Mortgage and Hypothecations Duty / Land Conversion Charges & Land cost in IE/IDA/IP’s Paid: 11.1 In case of Stamp Duty/Transfer Duty paid: Rs. 11.2 In case of Mortgage and Hypothecations Duty: Rs. 11.3 In case of Land Conversion Charges: Rs. 11.4 In case of lands purchased in IE/IDA/IP’s cost of land: Rs. Total Rs. 12.0 Amount Claimed for Stamp Duty/Transfer Duty / Mortgage Duty / Land Conversion Charges/ Land Cost purchased in IE/IDA/IP’s : 12.1 Stamp Duty/Transfer Duty: Rs. 12.2 Mortgage and Hypothecations Duty: Rs. 32 12.3 25% Land Conversion Charges: Rs. 12.4 25% Land Cost purchased in IE/IDA/IP’s: Rs. Total: Rs. DECLARATION I am authorized to file this application and I will take full responsibility of the information mentioned. I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Stamp Duty/Transfer Duty / Mortgage Duty / Land Conversion Charges/ Land Cost are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Authorisation by the other Partners/Board of Directors Resolution wherein the Name, Designation and signature are attested. Place : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Name, Designation &Firm /Office Seal. • The following documents are to be furnished: i. Registered Land Sale Deed/Lease Deed/Transfer Deed/Land conversion documents. ii. Payment proof. iii. All the required documents as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 13.0 RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) 13.1 Whether the Enterprise has already availed any exemption on purchase of land, if so amount in Rs. 13.2 Stamp Duty/Transfer Duty: Rs. 13.3 Mortgage and Hypothecations Duty: Rs. 13.4 25% Land Conversion Charges: Rs. 13.5 25% Land Cost purchase in IE/IDA/IP’s: Rs. The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if not the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 33 ANNEXURE: VII APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF POWER TARIFF UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2 Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. (cid:57) 3.3 Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Industry Expansion Diversification 3.4 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.5 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: 3.6 Employment in Nos. Male Female a) Management & Staff b) Supervisory c) Workers 34 4. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 5. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project Note: In respect of Expansion/Diversification projects, Enterprises involving at least 25% enhancement on fixed capital investment as well as Capacity are eligible for claiming incentives: 6. Employment: Male Female (Nos.) (Nos.) a) Management & Staff b) Supervisory c) Workers 7 Existing power connection in HP 8 New power connection in HP 9 Date of new power connection released. 10 Power utilized during previous Sl. Financial Total units Total amount paid three financial years before this No. Year consumed by the in Rs. expansion/ diversification 1 project 2 3 11 Details of Energy consumed from the date of commencement of production and amount claimed for the Half year ** 1st half year 2nd half year 1st April to 30th September 1st October to 31st March Financial year No. of units Amount paid in Rs. No. of units Amount paid in Rs. consumed consumed 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. ** Half year means every six months from the financial year beginning from 1st April to 31st March. 12. Claim applied for (Amount in Rs.) 35 DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Reimbursement of power tariff is found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Certified that this amount has not been claimed earlier. In case of a wrong claim I shall repay the entire amount of concession(s) availed T-PRIDE Scheme, 2014 scheme in Lump sum with prevailing interest. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. • The following documents are to be furnished: a) Power release certificate issued by DISCOM concerned for the first time of the claim. b) Power Bill and payment proof/receipts from DISCOM concerned. c) Self Certification prescribed at Form – B. d) Power utilization Particulars for the last –3- years and Column No. 4 & 5 of the application duly certified by Chartered Accountant for the first time of the claim if it is Expansion/Diversification Project. e) Valid Consent for Operation (CFO) from TSPCB/Acknowledgement from General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on pollution angle. f) All the required documents as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 13. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if so the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 36 ANNEXURE: VIII APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR CLAIMING INVESTMENT SUBSIDY UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) PART - A CLAIM To be filled by DIC/ Commissionerate of Industries. Date of receipt in DIC: DIC File No.: Date of receipt in Commissionerate: Commissionerate File No.: To be filled by Applicant 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation & Industry status (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited 3.3. New Industry Expansion Diversification 3.4 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.5 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: 37 4.0. Project Details: 4.1. New Enterprise. Line of activity Unit Installed capacity Value 4.2. Expansion/ Diversification Project Line of activity Installed Capacity % of increase under (in Enterprises) Expansion/ Diversification Project Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project 4.3. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets Existing Enterprise Under Expansion/ % of increase under Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (cid:57) 5.0. Social Status (Pl. mark) SC ST Women Others 5.1 Details of the Director(s) / Partner(s): Name Community Share % i) ii) iii) iv) 6.0. Power 6.1. Power released Date 6.2. Contracted load 6.3. Connected load 6.4 Employment: Male Female (Nos.) (Nos.) a) Management & Staff b) Supervisory c) Workers 7.0. Implementation Steps taken: 7.1. Project Finance: 7.2. Date of Application for term loan 7.3. Name of the Instn. (with lead Institution in the event of joint or consortium financing) 7.4. Term loan sanctioned reference No. : 7.5. Date: 38 8.0. Approved / Estimated Project cost, Term loan sanctioned and released, assets acquired etc. Name of Approved Loan Equity Loan Value of Value of Asset Project Sanct- from the Amount assets assets Cost ioned promoters Released (as certified certified by by financial Chartered institution). Accountant 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.1. Land 8.2. Buildings 8.3. Plant & Machinery 8.4 Machinery contingen- cies 8.5. Erection 8.6. Technical know-how, feasibility study 8.7. Working capital Total Note : The data on the above should be prior to date of filing of claim or within 6 months of Commencement of production, whichever is earlier in case of aided Enterprise/Industry. If it is self financed Enterprise/Industry, the data on the above should be prior to date of commencement of Commercial Production. 9.0 Total amount of subsidy already availed: 9.1. Scheme : 9.2. Amount : 10.0 Second Hand New Total % of Second Value of the Total Machinery Machinery Value in Hand Machinery Machinery value in value in Rs value in Rs. (1+2) value in the purchased from Rs. Rs. Total Machinery APIDC/ APSFC/ (2+5) value. Bank in Rs. 1 2 3 4 5 6 11.0. Registration with Commercial taxes Department Registration, VAT No. : Date CST No. : Date Concerned Authority : ACTO/C.T.O./D.C.T.O./Dy Commissioner Address : 39 12.0. Incentives applied for (in Rs.) on fixed capital investment: 12.1. Investment Subsidy : Rs. 12.2. An additional investment subsidy for Women entrepreneurs. : Rs. 12.3. An additional investment subsidy for SC/ST entrepreneurs : Rs. 12.4. An additional investment subsidy for Women entrepreneurs set up in Scheduled areas : Rs. Total : Rs. DECLARATION 13.1. I / We hereby confirm that the contents of the claim application are true to the best of my /our knowledge. 13.2. I / We abide by the provision under Industrial Investment Promotion Policy Scheme 2010-2015. State Incentives and further abide by the changes / modifications made by the State Government under G.O.Ms.No.61 Industries and Commerce (IP) Department., dated.29/06/2010. I / We also abide by the decisions of Industries & Commerce Department. 13.3. I / We shall not change the location of the whole or part of the industrial Enterprise or effect any substantial contraction or disposal of substantial part of its total capital investment within a period of six (6) years from the date of commencement of commercial production. 13.4. I / We assure that the State incentives (Capital subsidy) applied for will be used solely for the development of the Enterprise and shall produce utilisation certificate to the District Industries Centre (DIC) within one year and furnish annual progress report and certified copy of audited accounts to the DIC for a period of six (6) years. 13.5. I / We confirm that subsidy was already availed under the Government schemes mentioned at para No.9.0. 13.6. If the amount of Investment Subsidy are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason, I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount released to me/us under the scheme. 13.7. I / We shall agree that apart from other consequences, I / We will forego the eligibility for the continuance of incentives and other financial concessions for further years if these incentives / financial concessions were obtained by misrepresentation of facts or in case of misutilisation. I / We not only agree to pay back these incentives / financial concessions but also authorise State Government to call back the same through summary proceedings under the provisions of R.R.Act 1864. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of the above Enterprise and Certified to be true the expenditure under Col(7) of Sl.No. 8.0. I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. 40 Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ Name___________________________________________ Membership No.__________________________________ Full address_____________________________________ Name and address of the Institution where registered. Date: Place: Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 41 FOR OFFICIAL USE IN DIC OFFICE PART - B VERIFICATION -CUM- RECOMMENDATION OF G.M, DIC 1.1. Name and Address of the Industry : 1.2. Name of the Inspecting Officer : 1.3. Designation : 1.4. Date(s) of Inspection : 1.5. Constitution : Proprietary/Partnership/Pvt. Ltd./Limited/Coop. 1.6. Person (from Industry) present at : the time of Inspection. 1.7. Status of the Industry/Enterprises : New / Expansion / Diversification 2.0. Verification certificate Certified that contents of the claim under Part-A and the document indicated in Part-c of this claim application were verified and found correct. The plant and machinery and equipment was physically verified as per the statement of machinery and found them duly installed and put on work . Further certified that the fixed assets claimed for incentives are essentially required for carrying the production in which the industry is engaged in. 3.0. Project Details: 3.1. New Enterprise. Line of activity Unit Installed capacity Value 3.2. Expansion / Diversification Project Line of activity Installed Capacity % of increase under (in units) Expansion/ Diversification Project Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project 3.3. Fixed Capital Investment of the Expansion / Diversification Project (in Rs.) Nature of Assets Existing Enterprise Expansion/ % of increase under Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project Land Building Plant & Machinery Total 3.4 Date of commencement of production 3.5 Date of receipt of claim application 3.6 Date of issue of Regd. Notice calling shortfall documents/information 3.7 Date of claim taken to call book due to non Receipt of shortfalls documents 3.8 Date of receipt of shortfall documents/information. 42 4.0.0 Capital cost computed & recommended in Rs. 4.1.0 Land: 4.1.1. Extent in Sq.Mtrs Built up area in 5 times built up Extent eligible in Sq.Mtrs area in Sq.Mtrs Sq.Mtrs 4.1.2 Claim application submitted by the Enterprise for reimbursement of Stamp Duty: Yes / No. 4.1.3 Claim application submitted by the Enterprise for reimbursement of Land Cost: Yes / No. (if, the Enterprise submitted the claim applications for sanction of 25% Land cost, the GM, DIC concerned should not consider the land value for computation of fixed capital investment) (in Rupees) 4.1.4. Land cost Regn. Fees Total Approved Project Proportionate cost eligible value 4.1.5 Computed cost Rs. 4.2.0 Building and other civil works: 4.2.1 Approved Project cost : Value of the items Plinth area Rate as per the Value 4.2.2 8.2.2 to 8.2.10 of APSFC norms guideline Total value of 100 % Items Rs. 4.2.3 Value of the items 8.2.11 to 8.2.17 and similar items of guidelines not to exceed 10% of the total value of the civil works. 4.2.4 Total Value 10% Items Rs. 4.2.5 Grand Total Value 100% + 10% Items Rs. 4.2.6 As per approved project cost As per Civil Engineer Computed value by Certificate the GM 4.2.7 Computed cost : Rs. 4.3.0 Plant and Machinery and Equipment ( PM&E) : 4.3.1. As per As per list Tech.Know how 2nd hand % of 2nd Total approved of Plant & and study and machinery hand project cost Machinery turnkey charges Value Machinery not to exceed 10% of PM & E 4.3.2 Computed Cost: Rs. 4.4.0. Total Cost computed: (In Rupees) 4.4.1 Land (4.1.5) Buildings (4.2.7) Plant & Machinery (4.3.2) Total 43 5.0 Recommended for sanction of investment subsidy mentioned below: Investment Subsidy 5.1. Investment Subsidy : Rs. 5.2. An additional investment subsidy for Women entrepreneurs. : Rs. 5.3. An additional investment subsidy for SC/ST entrepreneurs : Rs. 5.4. An additional investment subsidy for Women entrepreneurs set up in Scheduled areas : Rs. Total : Rs. Signature of inspecting Officer with Designation. Remarks of the General Manager : The industrial entrepreneur acquired open land and established the industry/enterprise, hence previously not availed any incentives by the any industry/enterprise on this land. The industrial entrepreneur acquired the land and building on leased basis, previously not availed any incentives by the any industry/enterprise in this location. If, any Enterprise/Industry availed incentives under any scheme in the same location, may be sent details thereof. The applicant Enterprise is eligible for said incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme only. I recommend for sanction of incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. 44 TO BE FILED BY APPLICANT PART - C CHECK – SLIP 1.0. Document Enclosed 1.1. Certificate from the financing institution concerned showing term loan released and the value of assets acquired as on prior to filing of claim/within 6 months from the date of commencement of commercial production whichever is earlier together with other details and machinery statement as a statement of account in the form prescribed with attested copies of bills in case of institutionally financed Enterprises/industries. OR List of Plant & Machinery & Equipment purchased and installed in the prescribed form with attested copies of bills and payment proof in respect of self financed Enterprises/industries. 1.2. Caste Certificates issued by M.R.Os concerned in case of SC/ST Entrepreneur Yes/No/N.A 1.3. Certificate from the Chartered Accountant and % of holding of equity in the company by each partner/director. Yes/No/N.A 1.4. Regd. Partnership Deed/Articles of Association and Yes/No/N.A Memorandum of Association in case of Pvt. Ltd and Limited companies along with incorporation certificate/ Bye-laws in case of Indl. Cooperative along with Registration Certificate. 2.0. Documents in original to be produced to the inspecting officer of DIC for verification (tick appropriate) 2.1. Approval of Director of Factories Yes/No/N.A 2.2. Boilers Certificate Yes/No/N.A 2.3. Approval of Director of Town & Country Planning / UDA Yes/No/N.A 2.4 Regular building plans approval of Municipality or Gram Panchayat. Yes/No/N.A 2.5. Consent for Operation from TSPCB/Acknowledgement from the General Manager, DIC concerned Yes/No/N.A 2.6. Power release Certificate from TSTRANSCO/DISCOM Yes/No/N.A 2.7. Environmental clearance Yes/No/N.A 2.8. Other statutory approvals (specify) Yes/No/N.A 2.9. EM Part – I full set/IEM/IL Yes/No/N.A 2.10. EM Part – II full set/IEM/IL Yes/No/N.A 2.11. Project Report Yes/No/N.A 2.12. Term loan sanction letters Yes/No/N.A 2.13 Board Resolution authorizing to sign and file claim etc., in case of Pvt./Ltd., Companies, Cooperatives and similar authorization in respect of partnership firms. Yes/No/N.A 2.14 Registered land Sale deed/Premises Lease deed Yes/No/N.A 2.15 C.A. and C.E. Certificate regarding 2nd hand plant & machinery Yes/No/N.A 2.16. C.E. Certificate for Self fabricated machinery Yes/No/N.A 2.17. BIS Certificate Yes/No/N.A 2.18. Drug License Yes/No/N.A 2.19. Explosive License Yes/No/N.A 2.20. VAT/CST/SGST Certificate Yes/No/N.A 2.21. Form – A Yes/No/N.A 2.22. Form – B Yes/No/N.A N.A: = Not Applicable Signature of Authorised Person with firm / Office Seal 45 REMARKS OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER Verified all the above documents submitted by the Entrepreneur and found correct. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Designation/ General Manager. 46 ANNEXURE: IX APPLICATION -CUM -VERIFICATION FORM FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF INTEREST SUBSIDY UNDER 'PAVALA VADDI SCHEME' UNDER T-PRIDE— TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0 Details of Enterprise: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.5. Constitution of the Entrepreneur. (Pl. (cid:57) mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. 2.0. Social Status (Pl. (cid:57) mark) 2.1 SC ST Women Others 2.2. Details of the Director(s) / Partner(s): Name Social Shares % M/F status value SC/ST in Rs. i) ii) iii ) iv ) v) 2.3 If SC, ST & Women please indicate % Share in the equity : 3.0 . Address of the Enterprise: 3.1 Factory location: 3.2 Office: 4.0 New Enterprise Details : 3.3 Date of Commencement of Production: 47 (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.4 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: 5. Line of Activity : Line of activity Installed Capacity Units Value in Rs. (Nos./Tons/ KLts.) 1 2 3 6. Fixed Capital Investment: 6.1 Nature of Assets Amount in Rs. Land (only 5 times the building area to be considered) Building Plant & Machinery Total 7. Details of Term Loan Sanctioned and Availed : Name of the Loan A/c Sanction Amount Rate of Term loan Financial No. order sanctioned Interest released ( Rs.) Institution No & Date ( Rs.) % 1 2 3 4 5 6 8. Pavala Vaddi claimed: Interest on Rate of interest Interest Eligible Amount claimed Term loan on % paid (Rs) (maximu (Rs.) Half yearly excluding penal m9%) basis interest 1 2 3 4 5 DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Interest Subsidy are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of M/s ....................................................................(enterprise). I/ We hereby certify that the above figures furnished by the Enterprise holder are verified with the records of the Enterprise /Enterprise as per the provisions stipulated in G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014 I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ 48 Name_________________________________________ Membership No.________________________________ Full address____________________________________ Name and address of the Institution where registered. Date: Place: • The following documents are to be furnished: a) Term loan Sanction letter b) Certificate from financial institutions in prescribed form. g) Valid Consent for Operation (CFO) from TSPCB/Acknowledgement from General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on pollution angle. d) All the required document as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 9. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if so the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 49 ANNEXURE: X APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR GRANT OF SEED CAPITAL ASSISTANCE UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0 Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.5 Details of the Director(s) / Partner(s): Name Community Share % i) ii) iii) iv) 2.0 Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. 3.2 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.3 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: 3.4. Line of Activity. Line of activity Installed Capacity 50 4.0.Status: (cid:57) 4.1. Social Status (Pl. mark) SC ST Women If SC, ST & Women please indicate % Share in the equity. 4.2 Details of the Director(s) / Partner(s): Name Comm Share % E t i i) ii) iii) iv) 5.0. Power 5.1. Power Supply Date 5.2. Enterprise Contacted load 5.3. Connected load 6.0. Approved / Estimated Project cost, Term loan sanctioned and released, assets acquired etc. Name of Approved Loan Equity from Loan Value of Value of Asset Project Sanct- promoters Amount assets assets Cost ioned Released acquired certified by ( as certified Chartered by financial Accountant institution. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6.1. Land 6.2. Building 6.3. Plant & Machinery& Equipment 6.4 Preliminary & Pre operative expenses 6.5. Tech. know how / feasibility study / Turnkey charges. 6.6. Working Capital 6.7. Others. Total 7. Registration with Commercial taxes Department Registration, VAT No. : Date CST No. : Date Concerned Authority : ACTO/C.T.O./D.C.T.O./Dy Commissioner Address : 51 DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of seed capital assistance are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of the above Enterprise. I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ Name___________________________________________ Membership No.__________________________________ Full address____________________________________ Name and address of the Institution where registered. Date: Place: • The following documents are to be furnished: a) Sanction letter of term loan and seed capital loan from Financial Institution. b) Memorandum of Articles/Registered Partnership Deed c) EM Part – I / Part – II full set. 8. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if so the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 52 ANNEXURE: XI APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF SALES TAX UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. (cid:57) 3.3. Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Industry Expansion Diversification 3.4 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.5 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: 4. Employment: Male Female (Nos.) (Nos.) e) Management & Staff f) Supervisory g) Workers 53 5. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 6. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project Note: In respect of Expansion/Diversification projects, Enterprises involving at least 25% enhancement on fixed capital investment and Capacity are eligible for claiming incentives 7 Sales Tax Regn. No & Date VAT CST 8 Installed capacity of the existing Enterprise as certified by the financial institution/ chartered accountant 9 Production details Year Enterprises Total production preceding three years 1 before expansion/ diversification project as certified by the financial 2 institution/ chartered accountant 3 10 Sales Tax reimbursement 1st year (201 – 20 ) Rs. already availed by 2nd year (201 – 20 ) Rs. Enterprise from the Date of Commencement of 3rd year (201 – 20 ) Rs. Production. 4th year (201 – 20 ) Rs. Total Rs. 11 Claim application submitted by the Enterprise/Industry for the Year: 12 Tax paid by the Enterprise during the year as certified by Rs. Commercial Tax Department 25% Reimbursement amount claimed by the 13 Rs. Enterprise DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. 54 I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Reimbursement of tax are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. • The following documents are to be furnished: a) Certificate from concerned CTO as prescribed at Form – A. b) Production Particulars for the last –3- years and Column No. 5 & 6 of the application duly certified by Chartered Accountant for the first time of the claim, if it is Expansion/Diversification Project. c) Valid Consent for Operation (CFO) from TSPCB/Acknowledgement from General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on pollution angle. d) All the required document as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 14. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if so the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 55 ANNEXURE: XII APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTIFICATION CHARGES FOR ACQUIRING QUALITY CERTIFICATION COST UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1. (a) Name and Address of the Enterprise : (Office & Factory Location(s)) (b) Telephone No. Factory & Office : (c) E-mail & Fax No : 2 EM Part – II/IEM/IL/EOU No : Date : (Enclose an attested copy) 3. Item(s) of manufacture/processing as indicated in the EM Part – II/IEM/IL/EOU registration 4. Proof of functional status of the Enterprise as on the date of submission of Application. (A certificate (in original) from State DI/GM,DIC Confirming functional status of the Enterprise at the time of acquiring ISO-9000/ISO 14001/HACCP – certificate) 5. Details of ISO 9000/ISO 14001/HACCP Certificate Name and address of certification agency : The Certificate must have address of the site/location certified: Scope of certification, Certificate No, date of issue & period of validity (or date of expiry) Name & Logo & Number of the Accreditation Body/Board. (Enclose an attested copy of the Certificate) 6. Details of expenditure incurred in acquiring ISO- 9001/ISO-14001/HACCP Certificate (excluding Hotel & Travel expenses & Surveillance charges) Furnish a CA certificate of expenditure (in original) giving the details along with bills and vouchers and proof of payment. 7. Details of reimbursement/grant/subsidy already received, if any, from Centre Govt. (including DC(SSI) /State Govt./ Financial Institution etc. For acquiring ISO-9001/ISO-14001/HACCP Certificate (furnish, an Undertaking/declaration (in original) from the Managing Director/ Director Proprietor/Partner of the Enterprise duly sworn before a Notary. DECLARATION (full name)...................S/o ........................... Managing Director/ Director Proprietor / Partner / Proprietor is ......................(complete address) hereby declare that the particulars given in the application are correct. In case any of the statement/information furnished in the application / documents later found to be wrong or incorrect or misleading, I do hereby bind myself and my Enterprise to pay to the Government on demand the full amount received as reimbursement in respect of above mentioned activity, within seven days of the demand being made to me in writing. 56 I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Quality certification charges are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of the above Enterprise. I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ Name___________________________________________ Membership No.__________________________________ Full address____________________________________ Name and address of the Institution where registered. Date: Place: Note :The copy of EM Part – II/IEM/IL/EOU Certificate, ISO -Certification must be attested by General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned. 8. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if so the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 57 ANNEXURE: XIII APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR REIMBURSEMENT ON EQUIPMENT PURCHASED FOR CLEANER PRODUCTION MEASURES UNDER T-PRIDE— TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. 3.3 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.4 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: (cid:57) 4. Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Industry Expansion Diversification 58 5. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 6. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project 7 Details of Equipment Purchased for Cleaner production measures: Sl. Name of Name & Bill Cost of VAT / Excise Freight Other Total in No the address No. & the CST in Duty in Charge Charge Rs. equip- of the Date Equip- Rs. Rs. s in Rs. s in Rs. ment supplier ment in Rs. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 8 Amount of subsidy claimed in Rs.(25% limited to Rs. 5.00 Lakhs) Rs. DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if the amount of Reimbursement are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of the above Enterprise. I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ Name___________________________________________ Membership No.__________________________________ Full address____________________________________ Name and address of the Institution where registered. 59 Date: Place: • The following documents are to be furnished: a) Original purchase Bills and payment proof duly certified by the Financial Institution in case of Bank Finance or C. A. in case of Self Finance. b) Valid Consent for Operation (CFO) from TSPCB/Acknowledgement from General Manager, District Industries Centre concerned on pollution angle. c) All the required document as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 9. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives T-PRIDE Scheme 2014 The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if not the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 60 ANNEXURE: XIV APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF COST INVOLVED IN SKILL UPGRADATION AND TRAINING UNDER T-PRIDE— TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. 3.3 Date of Commencement of Production: (Date of Commencement of Production is the date of First Sale Bill/Invoice) 3.4 EM Part - II/IEM/IL No: Date: (cid:57) 4. Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Industry Expansion Diversification 61 5. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 6. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project 7. The industry/Enterprise are availed the training infrastructure Yes / No. of any Government agency like DRDA etc. ? 8. Name of the skill development Programme: 9. Name of the institute given the training: 10 No. of skilled employment trained by the industry 11 Expenditure incurred for training Programme 12. Amount Claimed in Rs. DECLARATION I / We hereby confirm that to the best of our knowledge and belief, information given herein before and other papers enclosed are true and correct in all respects. We further undertake to substantiate the particulars about promoter(s) and other details with documentary evidence as and when called for. I/We hereby agree that I/We shall forthwith repay the amount to me/us under scheme, if it is found to be disbursed in excess actually admissible whatsoever the reason. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT CERTIFICATE I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books of account and the bank statement in respect of the above Enterprise. I/We fully understand that any submission made in this certificate if proved incorrect or false, will render me/us liable to face any penal action or other consequences as may be prescribed in the law or otherwise warranted. Signature & Stamp/seal of the Signatory______________ Name___________________________________________ Membership No.__________________________________ Full address____________________________________ 62 Name and address of the Institution where registered. Date: Place: 5. The following documents are to be furnished: a) Copy of patent registration certificate and payment receipts. b) EM Part - II/IEM/IL full set. c) Form – C. d) All the required document as per Check-Slip at PART – C, for the first time of the claim. 13. RECOMMENDATION OF THE INSPECTING OFFICER: (not to be filled by the Enterprise/Industry, to be filled by inspecting Officer) a. Amount claimed in Rs. : b. Amount recommended in Rs. : The claim application of the captioned Enterprise/Industry is verified as per the operational guidelines. The Enterprise/Industry is eligible for availing incentives under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014 . The Enterprise/Industry did not add or removed any Plant & Machinery and there is no change of line of activity and capacity. Further, the Enterprise/Industry is in continuous operation, there is no break-in-production (if not the details of the break-in-production) and I recommend the above incentives to the captioned Enterprise/Industry. Signature of Inspecting Officer with Name & Designation. Remarks of the General Manager: The applicant Enterprise/Industry is eligible for above incentives and the claim is in order. The computation of capital cost has been done as per the provisions under the scheme. I recommend for sanction of above incentives. Signature of General Manager with Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 63 ANNEXURE: XV APPLICATION CUM VERIFICATION FOR SANCTION OF INDUSTRIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND (IIDF) UNDER T-PRIDE— TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1.0. Details of Industry: 1.1. Name of the Enterprise: 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0. Address of the Enterprise: 2.1 Office: 2.2 Factory location: 3.0.Status: (cid:57) 3.1 Category : (Pl. mark) Micro Enterprises Small Enterprises Medium Enterprises Large Industry (cid:57) 3.2. Constitution of the Organisation (Pl. mark) Proprietary Partnership Pvt. Ltd. Limited Coop. (cid:57) 3.3 Status of the Industry: (Pl. mark) New Industry Expansion Diversification 3.4 Whether it is located in Industrial Area declared by the Yes / No. Government. 3.5 Justification for the location of Enterprise/Industry, if it is located outside the Industrial Area declared by the Government. 3.6 Date of Commencement of Production/Expected date of Commencement of Production : 3.7 EM Part – I/EM Part II /IEM/IL No: 64 Date: 4. Fixed Capital Investment(in Rs.) Nature of Assets New /Existing Expansion/ % of increase under Enterprise Diversification Expansion/ Project Diversification Project (1) (2) (3) (4) Land Building Plant & Machinery Total (If it is a new enterprise/industry, then column (3) and (4) need not be filled and it may be strike off) 5. Line of Activity. Line of activity Units i.e. Values in Nos. / Tons/ Capacity Rs. Ltrs. New /Existing Enterprise Expansion/ Diversification Project % of increase under Expansion/ Diversification Project 6. Expected Employment generation: Male Female (Nos.) (Nos.) h) Management & Staff i) Supervisory j) Workers 7 Source of Finance 8 Description of the infrastructure facilities required and its objective 9 How the proposed infrastructure is critical to the Industrial Enterprise. 10 Estimates of Infrastructure facilities and name of the Chartered Engineer/Agency who prepared the Estimates 11 Duration of the Project 12 Copy of the Project & its approval report 13 Measures proposed to maintain the infrastructure created and its maintenance cost per annum. SIGNATURE OF THE APPLICANT COMPANY/ENTERPRISE Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 65 ANNEXURE - XVI APPLICATION-CUM-VERIFICATION FOR CLAIMING ADVANCE SUBSIDY UNDER T-PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) (P A R T – A1 (CLAIM) To be filled by DIC / Commissionerate of Industries: Date of receipt in DIC DIC File No. Date of receipt in Commissionerate Commissionerate File No. To be filled by the applicant 1.0 Details of Industry: 1.1 Name of the Enterprise/Industry 1.2 Name of the Proprietor/Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.3 TIN No. of the Enterprise/Industry/ Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 1.4 PAN No. of the Proprietor / Managing Partner / Managing Director: 2.0 Address of the Enterprise/Industry: 2.1 OFFICE 2.2 FACTORY LOCATION 3.0 STATUS (cid:57) 3.1 Constitution of the Organisation & Industry Status (Pl. mark) Proprietary [ ] Partnership [ ] Pvt Ltd. [ ] Limited [ ] 3.2 New Industry [ ] . 3.4 Expected date of commencement of production : 3.5 EM Part-I No & Date: (Copy to be enclosed) 3.6 PAN Card No :- i) Proprietor /Managing Partner/Managing Director :- ii) Company :- 3.7 I.T Returns (Enclose 3 years returns):- YES/NO 66 4.0 Proposed Project details 4.1 New Enterprise/Industry Line of activity Units Installed capacity Value 4.2 Proposed fixed capital investment (in Rs.) Nature of Assets Rs. Land Building Plant & Machinery Erection Expenses Total (cid:57) 5.0 Social Status (Pl. mark) SC [ ] ST [ ] WOMEN [ ] Caste certificate To be enclosed If SC, ST& Women please indicate % share in the equity: 5.1 Details of the Director (s) /Partner(s) (Deed to be enclosed) Name Community Share % i) ii) iii) iv) 6.0 POWER 6.1 Date of Application with APTRANSCO (copy of certificate to be Enclosed) 6.2 Contracted load (KW /HP) 7.0 Implementation steps taken: 7.1 Project Finance: 7.2 Date of application for term loan: 7.3 Name of the Instn. (with Lead institution in the event of joint or consortium financing 7.4 Term Loan sanctioned reference No & Date (copy to be enclosed) 8.0 Approved /Estimated Project cost, Term Loan, sanctioned and released, assets acquired etc. Name of Approved Loan Equity Loan asset Project cost Sanctioned From the Amount promoters released 1 2 3 4 5 8.1 Land 67 8.2 Building 8.3 Plant & Machinery & Equipment 8.4 Preliminary & Pre operative expenses 8.5 Tech.know how /feasibility study /Turnkey charges 8.6 Working capital 8.7 Others Total 9.0 Means of Finance 9.1 Total Equity from Promoters /Share holders /Partners to be brought in :Rs. 9.2 Own Capital:- Rs. ( Proof to be submitted) 9.3 Borrowed from out side:- Rs. ( Proof to be submitted) 10.00 Term loan release statement :- YES/NO (to be enclosed) 11.00 Registration with commercial taxes department: (copy to be enclosed) VAT NO. DATE CST NO DATE Concerned authority : ACTO/CTO/DCTO/DY. COMMISSIONER Address: 12.0 Advance subsidy applied :- 12.1 Advance Subsidy @50 % of the Promoters contribution (or) : 50% of the eligible investment Subsidy (Which ever is less) --------------------- Total Rs. ---------------------- DECLARATION 13.1 I /We hereby confirm that the contents of the claim application are true to the best of my /our knowledge. 13.2 I /We abide by the provision under T-PRIDE Scheme 2014. I /We also abide by the decisions of Industries & Commerce Department. 13.3 I /We shall not change the location of the whole or part of the industrial Enterprise or effect any substantial contraction over disposal of substantial part of its total capital investment within a period of six (6) years after the Enterprise/Industry commences production. 13.4 I /We assure that the State Incentives (Advance subsidy) applied for will be used solely for the development of the Enterprise/Industry and shall product utilization certificate to the District Industries Centre (DIC), within one year ; and furnish annual progress report and certified copy of audited accounts to the DIC for a period of seven (7) years. 68 13.5 If the amount of Advance Subsidy are found to be disbursed in excess of the amount actually admissible whatsoever the reason, I / We hereby agree that I /We shall forthwith repay the amount released to me /us under the scheme. 13.6 I /We shall agree that apart from other consequences. I /We will forego the eligibility for the continuance of incentives and other financial concessions for further years if these incentives /financial concessions were obtained by misrepresentation of facts or in case of misutilisation. I /We not only agree to pay back these incentives /financial concessions but also authorize State Government to call back the same through summary proceedings under the provisions of R.R.Act, 1864. Station Signature of Authorised person Date With firm /office seal. Signature of financial institution With Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 69 C E R T I F I C A T E We confirm that M/s __________________________________has been sanctioned an amount of Rs.___________ (Rupees ___ _ only) vide sanction Lr.No. dt.______________ Located at ________________for the line of activity ___________ towards term loan and released an amount of Rs. ___________ (Rupees_________________________________________________) on Dt.------------for setting up the Enterprise/Industry. We agree to release the balance term loan along with Advance subsidy to be released by the Commissioner of Industries, Hyderabad. Signature of financial institution Authority /Manager Date: With Office Seal. Name: Designation: 70 FOR OFFICIAL USE IN DIC OFFICE PART – B1 VARIFICATION-CUM-RECOMMENDATION OF GM, DIC FOR ADVANCE SUBSIDY (The Enterprise/Industry should be inspected by the General Manager along with concerned Officer only) 1.1 Name and address of the Industry: 1.2 Name and Designation of the Inspecting Officers : i) ii) 1.3 Date (s) of Inspection : 1.4 Person (from Industry) present at the time of inspection : 2.0 Project Details 3.1 New Enterprise/Industry Line of activity Units Installed capacity Value 3.2 Proposed fixed capital investment (in Rs.) Nature of Assets Rs. Land Building Plant & Machinery Total 3.3 Expected date of commencement of production 4.0 Proposed Project cost as per financial institution sanction letter. :Rs. 5.0 Total Equity from Promoters /Share holders /Partners to be brought in :Rs. 5.1 Own Capital:- Rs. 5.2 Borrowed from out side:- Rs. 6.0 As on the date of inspection, the following effective steps have been taken up by the entrepreneur: a) b) c) d) e) 7.0 Recommended for sanction of Advance Subsidy mentioned below, subject to produce the following approvals: a) b) 7.0 Advance Subsidy: 7.1 Advance Subsidy @50 % of the .. Promoters contribution (or) 71 50% of the eligible investment Subsidy. (Which ever is less) ------------------------ Total :: Rs. ------------------------ 8.0 Verification Certificate: Certified that the contents of the claim under Part-A and the document indicated in Part-C of this claim application are verified and found correct. Further certified that the fixed assets claimed for incentives are essentially required for carrying and the production in which the industry is engaged in. The Enterprise/Industry has been inspected and work is in progress and recommending here with for the sanction of Advance subsidy. Signature of the Officer Signature of General Manager, District Industries Centre District Industries Centre 72 PART-C1 Documents to be enclosed by the applicant for sanction of eligible Advance subsidy: 1 Claim application form Y/N 2 Caste Certificate issued by the concerned Mandal Revenue Y/N Officer 3 Registered partnership Deed / Articles Association / Y/N Memorandum of Association in case of Pvt Ltd or Companies 4 Detailed project Report issued by the Financial Institution / Y/N List of Plant and Machinery and equipment to be purchased with copies of quotations 5 Advance Stamped Receipts paid to the suppliers, if any. Y/N 6 Copy of approval of Factories Department Y/N /N.A 7 Copy of approval of Town & Country Planning Y/N /N.A 8 Copy of approval of Municipality /Gram Panchayat for Y/N establishment 9 Consent for establishment from AP Pollution Control Y/N Board / General Manager, District Industries Centre Pollution Acknowledgement 10 Consent for power from APTRANSCO Y/N 11 EM Part – I Y/N 12 Term Loan sanction letter issued by the Financial Y/N Institution. 13 Regd.Land Sale Deed /Premises Lease Deed /Allotment Y/N letter from APIIC/Own land 14 TIN No. Y/N 73 TO BE FILLED ALONG WITH CLAIM FOR AIDED ENTERPRISES STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS IN RESPECT OF AIDED ENTERPRISES: Date: 1. Name & Address of the Enterprise : 2. Name & Address of the Financial Institution : 3. Term loan sanction Date of filling Date of Amount Sanctioned : of application Sanction (in Rs.) 1st Loan 2nd Loan 3rd Loan etc. 4. Project cost, loan sanctions and release, assets acquired (in Rs.) Nature of Approved Quantum Institu- Loan Assets Assets Total Asset Project of Loan tion Received Acquired which acquired. Cost Sanc- Margin to the form Part (Original) tioned extent of of Loan approved Released Project Cost but loan was not drawn 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Land Buildings Plant & Machinery Machinery contingen- cies Erection Technical know-how, feasibility study Working capital Total 5. If the Project cost is revised, the details. (in Rs.) Nature of Revised Addl. Part Quantum Quantu Propor- Assets Total Asset Approved of of Addl. m of tionate which form Assets Project Approved Loan Addl. Asset Part of acquired Cost Project Sanctione Loan Acquire approved . Cost d Receive d to the Project Cost d Addl. but loan was Loan not drawn Release d 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Land Buildings Plant & Machinery Machinery contingen- cies 74 Erection Technical know-how, feasibility study, Working capital Total a) Name of the Certifying Officer :………………………………………….. b) Designation :………………………………………….. Signature of the Certifying Officer Stamp with Designation Bank Seal 75 TO BE FILLED ALONG WITH CLAIM FOR AIDED ENTERPRISES LIST OF PLANT & MACHINERY Statements on machinery including erection, freight transportation on which term loan was released and not utilised but they form part of approved project cost of M/s. ……………………………………... ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… ………. Sl. No. Name of the Date of Name of the Bill No. & Amount of the machine with Placement of Supplier Date bill including Specifications Order freight, insurance, taxes, etc. (in Rs.) For self fabricated Machinery, certificate be affixed on the minimum life and cost reasonableness of each item with specification of such machinery. This is to certify that from the above list of plant & machinery Sl. No. ____ to _____ are new and Sl.No._____ to _____ are second hand machinery a) Name of the Certifying Officer :………………………………………….. b) Designation :………………………………………….. Signature of the Certifying Officer Stamp with Designation Bank/APSFC Seal Certification b) Verified Plant & Machinery, found to tally with the list, duly erected and put to use and is required for manufacturing the approved lines of activities. c) There are no second hand machinery items in the list. Signature of Inspecting officers with designation and seal 76 TO BE FILLED WITH CLAIM APPLICATION BY ALL ENTERPRISES. (CIVIL ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE) I hereby certify that M/s. (Name of the industrial Enterprise with complete address) as against the estimated cost of Rs. (Rupees........................................................ ....................................................... only) has completed the civil work (address) as on Under:- 1. Value of completed Civil works as per the estimate (Item wise details) of the building and civil work completed (With plinth area must be shown) Rs. a) b) c) d) 2. Expenditure incurred on other items excluding the item shown in (1) above pertaining to a factory construction. Details of each item to be shown. a) b) c) d) Total Rs. Place : Date : Civil Engineer of the Financing Institution / Chartered Engineer. Note: In respect of Expansion / Diversification, the value of Civil works should be on the additional constructions taken up for the purpose of Expansion / Diversification only. 77 FORM - A APPLICATION-CUM CERTIFICATION OF SALES TAX DEPARTMENT SHOWING THE TAX PAID BY THE ENTERPRISE FOR AVAILING REIBURSEMENT UNDER T- PRIDE—TELANGANA STATE PROGRAM FOR RAPID INCUBATION OF DALIT ENTREPRENEURS INCENTIVE SCHEME. (G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014) 1st HALF YEAR/ 2nd HALF YEAR – 201 – 201 (1st half year means tax paid for the period from 1st April to 30th September & 2nd half year means tax paid for the period from 1st October to 31st March) To : The Commercial Tax Officer, ______________ ______________ ______________ (Address) Sir, I hereby request you to Certify for reimbursement of 100%/75%/50% under new industrial policy framework for Telangana i.e., T-PRIDE Incentive scheme 2014 1. Name of the Enterprise/industry and Address : ………………………………………… ………………………………………… 2. Name of the goods manufactured : .………………………………………. in Telangana in his own Enterprise/industry. 3. Item wise production details during the 1st Units Qty/Value half Year/ 2nd half year : a) b) c) Total 4. Sales Tax (net VAT/CST or State goods and services tax) paid by the Enterprise/industry under the State Sales Tax Act, for the 1st half year/ 2nd half year : 201 -- 201 (a) Tax paid on sales by it in : Rs. …………………………….. respect of goods manufactured (in figure) by the Enterprise/industry in (Rupees……………………………….………….) Telangana during the 1st half year/ (in words) 2nd half year. (b) Central Sales Tax paid by it on : Rs. ………………………………………. Sales in the course of inter (in figure) State trade or commerce made (Rupees …………..…..………………………….) From/within Telangana state during the 1st half year/ 2nd half year. (in words) 5. Name of the Bank with its branch : …………………………………………… Name and bank account No. through …………………………………………… Which the payment was made. 6. Registration Certificate No. of the : …………………………………………… Dealer under the State Sales …………………………………………… Tax Act. / the Central Sales Tax Act, 78 I duly verify that all the facts and figures furnished above are correct. Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. (Proprietor/ Partner/Managing Director/ Director) (Strike out whichever is not applicable) CERTIFICATE It is certified that all the facts and figures furnished by the Enterprise is verified with the records and found correct. The above Enterprise/industry has paid the Sales Tax amount of Rs.______________ and also there is no due for the 1st half year/ 2nd half year – 201 – 201 . Place: Date: COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER (concerned) Office Seal. Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 79 FORM - B FORMAT FOR SELF CERTIFICATION UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014 1 Name of the Industrial Enterprise 2 Location 3 Part – II / IEM Acknowledgment/IL No. & Date 4 Details of Power: Existing Power New / additional Date of Name of the power supplying connection in HP power connection new/addl. power company. in HP connection released. 5 Date of commencement of regular production 6 Line of Activity C E R T I F I C A T E i. Certified that we have complied / are complying with all the provisions of G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014 made there under, in addition to those specifically mentioned above. ii. I/We hereby confirm that the contents mentioned above are true to the best of my / our knowledge. iii. I/We abide by the provisions under the Industrial Investment Promotion Policy of Govt. of Andhra Pradesh and further abide by the change/modifications made by the State Government under G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014 and also abide by the decisions of Industries & Commerce Department. iv. I/We am/are authorized person(s) to issue the above Certificate and the above Certificate is issued with full knowledge of the Statue. I/We am/are jointly and severally responsible for any information found incorrect subsequently and liable for prosecution under the provisions Acts/Code and Rules. v. I/We undertake to Refund the concessions claimed if found were obtained by misrepresentation of facts or in case of misuse. AUTHORISED SIGNATIORY: Name:…………………………. Designation:…………………… Date:…………………………… Seal:…………………………… 80 FORM – C DETAILS OF THE EMPLOYEE 1. Name of the Enterprise: 2. Date of Commencement of Commercial Production: 1. Age 2. Social Status : SC/ST/Other Women/Women-SC/Women-ST 3. Local / Non local (District as an unit) 4. Educational Qualifications: ITI/Degree 5. Previous Experience 6. a) EPF No. c) ESI No. 7. Date of Joining the Industry: 8. Training Period : From to 9. Expenditure incurred for Training: 10. Training Organisation : 11. Whether any Government funds availed the Organisation for this training purpose. If so, details I have verified the above facts & certify that they are true and correct. AUTHORISED SIGNATIORY: Name:…………………………. Designation:…………………… Date:…………………………… Seal:…………………………… ADVANCED STAMPED RECEIPT (Paras 21.3, 21..4 & 21.5 of Guidelines) Received Rs._____ __ (Rupees________________________________only) towards ___________________________________________ Sanctioned to M/s. _____________________vide Proceedings No.________________Date ____________________of Additional Director of Industries / General Manager, DIC, ______________under the New Scheme of Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, vide 81 G.O.Ms.No.61 Industries and Commerce (IP) Department., dated.29/06/2010 cheque No.__________________ date._____________from the M.D., APSFC(Telangana Unit) with thanks. Date : Authorised Signatory. Place: (on Re. 1/- Revenue Stamp) // Attested // GENERAL MANAGER. DIC. TO BE FILLED ON RECEIPT OF SANCTION PROCEEDINGS. Assignment letter. (Paras 21.3, 21..4 & 21.5 of Guidelines) We wish to state that we have obtained bridge loan from _______________________________ _____________________________ (Name of the Financial Institution / Bank) / Not obtained Bridge loan from any bank or financing Institution against the State Investment Subsidy sanctioned under G.O.Ms.No.29 Industries and Commerce (IP & INF) Department. dated.29/11/2014. We have availed the term loan from _______________ (Name of the Financial Institution / Bank). Kindly send the cheque towards payment of sanctioned _______________________________________, to us through _____________________ (Bank / Branch Name) for being credited to our account. Date: Authorised Signatory Place: ( on Re.1/- Revenue Stamp) // Attested // GENERAL MANAGER. DIC. 82 UTILISATION CERTIFICATE 1. Name of the Enterprise/Industry with address : 2 EM Part – II / IEM/IL ( Registration No. and Date) : 3 Type of sanctioned incentives/concessions : 4 Proceedings No. : Date : Amount in Rs. : 5 ______________________________________ sanctioned received Cheque No. : Date : Amount : Certified that the said ________________________incentives/concessions received by us has been fully utilised for the purpose for which it was sanctioned towards the development of the enterprise/industry as detailed below. Purpose Amount utilised 1. 2. 3. Signature of the Authorised Person with the Firm/Office Seal. 83 ACKNOWLEDGMENT: Received Incentives claim Application from M/s……………………………………………………………………………………………. …………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………………………………………………………………… ……………………..Dated …………………………on………………………………. Receiver's Signature with Date stamp of DIC. To be filed along with claim application for reimbursement of interest amount under (Pavala Vaddi scheme) (Para 5.3.0 of Guidelines Certificate Term Loan) CERTIFICATE FOR TERM LOAN It is certify that ------------------------------------- the Micro/Small Enterprise (industrial Enterprise) is engaged in the manufacture of "--- -----------------" have been sanctioned Rs.---------------- Vide Sanction letter no. --------------------- and --------------------------------------- ------- as Term Loan with Loan Account No.------------------------- The Enterprise has repaid principal amount together with Interest as detailed below. Details of disbursements against the sanctioned loan. Sl.No. Date of Disbursements Amount Disbursed 1 2 3 4 Total Amount Disbursed Rs. Payment of Interest Term Total Rate of No. of Due date of Amount of Interest Sl.No. of Date of Principal Date of Interest Eligible Loan Amount Interest Installments installment the chargeable installment payment Amount payment Amount interest disbursed fixed for of principal installment on the due of paid in of paid in subsidy in Rs. Repayment amount. of principal date of the Principal Rs. Interest Rs. amount amount installment Amount Amount for become due of principal reimbur in Rs. amount sement (interest under against each Pavala installment Vaddi of be shown Scheme separately) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 1. This is a new Enterprise with the EM No. ,Date an date of Commencement of Commercial production -------------- 2. Certified that more than 75% of the plant and machinery is new and not second hand. 3. Penal interest is excluded and the Enterprise is paying regularly the interest as well as principal amount 86 87 4. Reimbursement of interest will be eligible from the date of commencement of commercial production. 5.Certified that the interest shown under the demand column is calculated on the principal amount due only but not on loan amount outstanding which includes interest not paid on due dates and added to the loan account i.e., compound in affect was not resulted in due to non payment of interest/principal on due date(s) while calculating the interest. 6.The following condition has been taken into consideration while arriving the interest period paid : " The loan accounts that are classified as overdue in the books of the bank at time of half yearly closing and that which are classified as non performing assets at year end closing are ineligible. However, if they on-time repayments and regularize the arrears they are eligible for the incentives in the next half yearly period." a) Name of the Certifying Officer :………………………………………….. b) Designation :………………………………………….. Signature of the Certifying Officer Stamp with Designation Bank/TSFC Seal Note: This application form, if photo copied must be exactly as per original & it must be both sides of the page. 88 To be filed along with claim application by the self financed Enterprises/industries Statement of new Plant, Machinery & Equipment (P.M.E) Purchased and installed by M/s…………………………………..………… In the enterprise/industry located at ………………………………………………………………………………………...…………… NEW PLANT, MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT Sl.No. Name & Specification of Date of Placement Name and Address of Bill No. & Date Basic Cost Taxes Duties Insurance Machinery Equipment of Order Supplier (Rs.) (Rs.) (Rs.) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Freight Others Total Whether Cash / Payments made against Credit Receipt No. & Date in token In respect of other than the Remarks (Rs.) (Rs.) (Rs.) Credit Purchase Purchase, Cheque/DD/ No. & Dt. of receipt of amount by machines the purpose for which Supplier used 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. Certification d) Verified Plant & Machinery, found to tally with the list, duly erected and put to use and is required for manufacturing the approved lines of activities. e) There are no second hand machinery items in the list. Signature of Inspecting officers with designation and seal 89 To be filed along with claim application by the all industrial Enterprises/Industries Statement of Second hand Plant, Machinery & Equipment (P.M.E) Purchased and installed by M/s………………………...………… In the enterprise/industry located at ………………………………………………………………………………………...…………… SECOND HAND PLANT, MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT Sl.No. Name & Specification of Date of Placement Name and Address of Bill No. & Date Basic Cost Taxes Duties Insurance Others Machinery Equipment of Order Supplier (Rs.) (Rs.) (Rs.) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Total Whether Cash / Payments made against Receipt No. & Date in In respect of other Depreciated Minimum Remarks (Rs.) Credit Purchase Credit Purchase, token of receipt of than the machines the Value Life Cheque/DD/ No. & Dt. amount by Supplier purpose for which used 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CERTIFICATES: i) Verified and certified that the depreciated value of ii) Verified and certified that the minimum life of each purchase reflected at column “15” of the above each purchase of second hand machinery reflected statement are correct at column “16” of the above statement are correct Signature of Chartered Accountant with Seal affixed Signature of Chartered Engineer with seal affixed 90 To be filed along with claim application by the all industrial Enterprises/Industries Statement of Self Fabricated Machinery installed by M/s………………………...………………………………………………..…… In the enterprise/industry located at ………………………………………………………………………………………...…………… SELF FABRICATD MACHINERY (STATEMENT OF MATERIALS PURCHASED & WAGES PAID BE APPENDED) Sl.No. Name & Specifications of the Item Fabricated Cost. (in Rs.) Minimum Life Remarks 1 2 3 4 5 Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CERTIFICATE: Verified and certified that the minimum life and cost reasonableness of self fabricated machinery reflected column 3 & 4 are of the above statement are correct. Signature of Chartered Engineer with seal affixed 91 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REPORT (Industrial Investment Promotion Policy – 2010-2015 (G.O.Ms.No.61 Industries & Commerce (IP) Department, Dated:29/06/2010) 1. LSI / MSI / EM Part – II (Registration No. & Date.) 2. Report for the Year Date of receipt. 3. Incentives received a) Capital Subsidy : Rs. b) Sales Tax Reimbursement : Rs. c) Power Consumption Reimbursement : Rs. d) Stamp Duty Reimbursement : Rs. e) Land cost Reimbursement in IE/IDA/IPs : Rs. Name of the Change in If there is break Production Value industry with location of in production Quantity / (Rs.) Employment Sales Value Percentage Quantum full postal Enterprise or period from Enterprise Quantity / (Rs.) Capacity _______ Remarks Permanent Tempo address change in ________ to Enterprise Utilisation utilised management if ________ and rary any reasons 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Station : Signature of Authorised Person Date : with Firm /Office Seal. CERTIFICATE: Verified with records and found the above information is correct. Signature of the General Manager, District Industries Centre, 92 92