GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT ITE&C Department – eProcurement Project – New Version of eProcurement Application - Development of New Version of eProcurement and eAuction Application – Go-Live of New Version of eProcurement & eAuction Application w.e.f. 03.10.2017 – Implementation of eAuction services in all the departments - Orders – Issued. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (eProcurement) G.O.Ms.No. 11 Dated: 27-06-2018 Read the following:- 1. G.O.Ms.No. 16, ITE&C (eProc) Dept., Dated 16.11.2015 2. G.O.Ms.No. 14, ITE&C (eProc) Dept., Dated 18.09.2017 3. G.O.Ms.No. 15, ITE&C (eProc) Dept., Dated 29.09.2017 ORDER: Government of Telangana is the pioneering State in implementation of a State- wide e-Procurement platform successfully. The platform is being used by all Government departments, Public Sector Undertakings, Urban Local Bodies and Universities. The initiative has delivered demonstrable benefits like cost savings to the user departments, significant reduction of tender process time, efficiency in procurement processes and transparency. 2. For providing additional features on eProcurement platform and after finalizing the “Development of new version of eProcurement & eAuction system”, the APTS has entered into Agreement on 12.02.2014 with M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprises and a Supplementary Agreement was also entered on 30.05.2014, in view of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, to cater to the needs of the newly formed State of Telangana. The new Version of above application was moved to production with effect from 03.10.2017 for both the services i.e. eProcurement and eAuction Services. 3 In the G.O. 1st read above, the Govt. have accorded permission for providing the eAuction services by M/s MSTC Ltd., for a period of (03) Three years or till Go-Live of New version of eProcurement platform, whichever is earlier and specified the charges for the services rendered. In the G.O. 2nd read above, the Govt. have suspended the operation of G.O. 1st read above and issued instructions to all the Departments/ HoDs/Corporations/Local Bodies/Universities and PSUs in the Telangana State to utilize the above services through the above application. 4. In view of the above, it is felt necessary to fix the minimum Service Charges for the services rendered through ”New Version of eProcurement application of Govt. of Telangana” and to form certain guidelines for usage of the eAuction Services in the state of Telangana for the use of user departments in an efficient and transparent manner. 5. Government after careful examination, hereby issue the following guidelines for providing eAuction services provided by its own New version of eProcurement application. a) All departments, PSU’s undertakings and local bodies of Government of Telangana are requested to utilize the eAuction services in consultation with the IT,E&C department. b) The participating departments shall issue necessary amendments / changes in the existing procedure, as deemed necessary for switching over from the conventional / existing Auction process to equivalent of eAuction process. c) All the existing codal rules, Government of India evaluation instructions for processing of the auction are applicable to the eAuction also. d) The O&M Vendor (i.e. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprise) of New Version of eProcurement application, shall provide eAuction services for sale of scrap, rejected/condemned /obsolete material/store (Ferrous and nonferrous), used and condemned Plant & Machinery, condemned vehicles etc through forward eAuction. e) The O&M Vendor (i.e. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprise) of New Version of eProcurement application shall provide eAuction services for sale of products like Ores & Minerals, Forest Produce, Agricultural Produce, Human Hair, immovable properties including Government Land Parcels, Industrial Products etc., through forward eAuction. Contd… on page 2 :: 2 :: f) The O&M Vendor (i.e. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprise) of New Version of eProcurement application shall provide e-Reverse Auction services for purchase of any type of goods, plant, machinery, equipments, spares, finished/ semi-finished product, agricultural products etc as may be assigned by the Buyer/Principal from time to time according to its requirement through Reverse Auction. g) The O&M Vendor (i.e. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprise) of New Version of eProcurement application shall take up customization and training of the departments in consultation with ITE&C Dept h) The following service charge/ transaction fee, is payable in consideration of the services provided:- (i) For eAuction of scrap, Seller shall pay the service charges @ 0.50% of the value of materials disposed, arrived on the basis of the value of the Delivery Order (D.O.) Sheet subject to a maximum of Rs.25,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty five lakhs only) per eAuction + applicable Taxes i.e. GST/other taxes prevailing at the time of Tender. (ii) For eAuction of Red Sanders, Eucalyptus and other forest produce / Minerals and Property & Lands Sale, Seller shall pay the service charges @ 0.50% of the amount shown as sold in the eAuction Bid Sheet subject to a maximum of Rs.25,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty five lakh only) per eAuction + applicable Taxes i.e. GST/other taxes prevailing at the time of Tender. (iii) For reverse eAuction, supplier shall pay the transaction fee @ 0.03% of the estimated / starting price from each bidder for every event subject to a maximum of Rs. 5,000/- per lot per bidder + applicable Taxes i.e. GST/other taxes prevailing at the time of Tender. (iv) For all participants, a Registration Fee of Rs.1000/- plus taxes would be payable for Auction platform for Indian bidders. For Foreign Bidders who are registering themselves on the platform, a Flat fee of USD $ 50 would be payable as one-time Registration fee. 6. All the Departments/HoDs/Corporations/Local Bodies/Universities and PSUs in the Telangana State are directed to use the eAuction Services of New Version of eProcurement application with new Domain name i.e., “eprocurement.telangana.gov.in” with sub domain of ‘auction.telangana.gov.in’ for eAuction Services hereafter. All the new Tenders for eAuction should be published on New Version of eProcurement application only. 7 This order shall come into force with immediate effect. Copy of the G.O. is available at http://goir.telangana.gov.in. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) Dr. SHAILENDRA KUMAR JOSHI CHIEF SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To All the Special Chief Secretaries/Prl. Secretaries/Secretaries to Govt. Telangana Secretariat All the Departments/HoDs/Corporations/Local Bodies/Universities The Commissioner Endowments Dept., The Commissioner of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Dept., Copies to: 1. PS to CS, Telangana Secretariat, Hyderabad 2. PS to Prl. Secretary to Govt., ITE&C Dept., Telangana Secretariat 3. The Accountant General (Audit) AP & TS Hyderabad 4. The Accountant General (Accounts) AP & TS Hyderabad 5. The Managing Director, TSTSL Hyderabad 6. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterpises, Hyderabad (Consortium Partner M/s Vupadhi Techno Services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad) 7. ST/SC //FORWARDED BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER