POLICY ON RURAL TECHNOLOGY CENTERS 2016 Information Technology, Electronics & Communications Department, Government of Telangana PREAMBLE Information Technology and its allied sectors have been one of the main reasons for India’s emergence as an economic powerhouse. Apart from contributing to about 10% of the country’s GDP, this sector also provides employment to over 3.5 million professionals, of which a majority of them come from rural areas of the country. Realizing the importance of this availability of large talent pool in rural areas, the Government of Telangana aims to develop the rural areas of the state into emerging Technology Centres, which in turn aid wealth and job creation. Additionally, rural areas offer significant advantage, in terms of cost of living, operations cost, availability of skilled human resources at low cost, low commuting time, etc. These locations account for over 25% saving, as compared to large cities. Past experiences and pilot projects from other regions show that these Rural IT Centres are capable of contributing to a wide array of industry needs. Following are some of these areas: 1. Data processing, data entry, data management and document digitization etc. 2. Voice related services that offer inbound call support such as customer service, inquiry handling, technical support services etc. and outbound call support such as product promotions, market research, customer feedback etc. 3. HR related services, financial accounting, legal support, web-marketing etc. VISION & GOALS As the Information Technology sector is transforming rapidly with the growth of sub-sectors such as Data Analytics, Gaming & Animation, Social Media etc. it is just a matter of time before these rural centres become centres of development and support for these technologies. Given the gamut of tasks that could be performed, the Government of Telangana intends to call these centres as Rural Technology Centres (RTCs).For an IT centre to qualify as a Rural Technology Centre, it has to meet the following criteria Ÿ The centre should be setup either in a Mandal or Village Panchayat level Ÿ The population of the Mandal or Village that the centre is in must have a population less than 50,000 Ÿ The location of the IT centre should be at a distance of atleast 50km from the nearest city Accordingly, the Government has identified the following goals that it would like to achieve in the next 3 years: • Develop one Rural Technology Centre in each of the 10 districts of the state • Provide employment to at least 2,500 people through Rural Technology Centres • Train 10,000 rural youth through TASK with the skills required by Rural Technology Centres However, since the penetration of Information Technology in rural areas is still in a nascent stage in the country, setting up and operating a business comes with its own risks. The Government of Telangana has come up with a comprehensive set of incentives that mitigate the risks associated with this business. PREAMBLE Information Technology and its allied sectors have been one of the main reasons for India’s emergence as an economic powerhouse. Apart from contributing to about 10% of the country’s GDP, this sector also provides employment to over 3.5 million professionals, of which a majority of them come from rural areas of the country. Realizing the importance of this availability of large talent pool in rural areas, the Government of Telangana aims to develop the rural areas of the state into emerging Technology Centres, which in turn aid wealth and job creation. Additionally, rural areas offer significant advantage, in terms of cost of living, operations cost, availability of skilled human resources at low cost, low commuting time, etc. These locations account for over 25% saving, as compared to large cities. Past experiences and pilot projects from other regions show that these Rural IT Centres are capable of contributing to a wide array of industry needs. Following are some of these areas: 1. Data processing, data entry, data management and document digitization etc. 2. Voice related services that offer inbound call support such as customer service, inquiry handling, technical support services etc. and outbound call support such as product promotions, market research, customer feedback etc. 3. HR related services, financial accounting, legal support, web-marketing etc. VISION & GOALS As the Information Technology sector is transforming rapidly with the growth of sub-sectors such as Data Analytics, Gaming & Animation, Social Media etc. it is just a matter of time before these rural centres become centres of development and support for these technologies. Given the gamut of tasks that could be performed, the Government of Telangana intends to call these centres as Rural Technology Centres (RTCs).For an IT centre to qualify as a Rural Technology Centre, it has to meet the following criteria Ÿ The centre should be setup either in a Mandal or Village Panchayat level Ÿ The population of the Mandal or Village that the centre is in must have a population less than 50,000 Ÿ The location of the IT centre should be at a distance of atleast 50km from the nearest city Accordingly, the Government has identified the following goals that it would like to achieve in the next 3 years: • Develop one Rural Technology Centre in each of the 10 districts of the state • Provide employment to at least 2,500 people through Rural Technology Centres • Train 10,000 rural youth through TASK with the skills required by Rural Technology Centres However, since the penetration of Information Technology in rural areas is still in a nascent stage in the country, setting up and operating a business comes with its own risks. The Government of Telangana has come up with a comprehensive set of incentives that mitigate the risks associated with this business. INCENTIVES 2. NON-FISCAL INCENTIVES a. The Rural Technology Centres are exempt The ITE&C Department proposes the following from the purview of the Telangana categories of incentives for the promotion of Pollution Control Act Rural Technology Centres b. IT Industry is exempt from inspections under the following Acts and the Rules framed thereunder, barring inspections arising out of specific complaints. The IT 1. FISCAL INCENTIVES units are permitted to file self-certificates, a. Reimbursement of panchayat taxes for first three years of operation for first 5 IT Companies in each town. in the prescribed formats. b. Promotions Support i. The Factories Act, 1948 i. For promotion of IT events (by trade association) in rural locations, the Government would provide ii. The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 reimbursement/sponsorship for the event up to a maximum of Rs. 5 Lakhs or 50% of the event cost, whichever is lower. iii. The Telangana Shops & Establishments Act, 1988 ii. 50% Exhibition stall rental cost or Rs. 50,000, whichever is lower, will be reimbursed for participating in the notified national/international exhibitions limited to 9 sq.mts. of space. iv. The Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act 1970 c. IT companies setting up operations in rural locations will be permitted to avail renewable energy under open access system from within the state after paying cost component to DISCOMs as fixed by ERC v. The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (subject to a maximum of one third of their total power requirements) vi. The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 d. 50% investment subsidy on fixed capital Investment, with a maximum limit per unit of Rs. 40 Lakhs vii. The Employment Exchanges limited to the first 3 companies. Thereafter, investment subsidy shall be fixed at 10%, with a maximum (Compulsory Notification of limit per unit of Rs. 8 Lakhs. Vacancies) Act, 1959 e. Rental subsidy of 25% per square feet for three years for the first 3 companies. Thereafter, rental subsidy viii. General permission for three shift shall be fixed at 10% per square feet for three years. operations with women working in f. 25% reimbursement on Internet and Telephone charges for the first 3 years of operations. the night for IT/ITES units/ g. 100% exemption from payment of SD/EMD and cost of tender document. companies h. Workforce Development ix. Fibre based connectivity support with two Internet Service Providers i. As a part of Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge (TASK), the Government of Telangana will create skill development centres and Faculty Development programs for colleges and training institutions in rural areas ii. Training subsidy of Rs. 2,500/month/person for 6 months. iii. Recruitment Assistance at the rate of Rs. 20,000 per employee for a minimum annual recruitment of 50 new IT professionals from the colleges located in Telangana. This assistance will be managed and disbursed by TASK. iv. Rs. 10 Lakhs subsidy to bridge the viability gap for first year for first 3 anchor units across all locations INCENTIVES 2. NON-FISCAL INCENTIVES a. The Rural Technology Centres are exempt The ITE&C Department proposes the following from the purview of the Telangana categories of incentives for the promotion of Pollution Control Act Rural Technology Centres b. IT Industry is exempt from inspections under the following Acts and the Rules framed thereunder, barring inspections arising out of specific complaints. The IT 1. FISCAL INCENTIVES units are permitted to file self-certificates, a. Reimbursement of panchayat taxes for first three years of operation for first 5 IT Companies in each town. in the prescribed formats. b. Promotions Support i. The Factories Act, 1948 i. For promotion of IT events (by trade association) in rural locations, the Government would provide ii. The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 reimbursement/sponsorship for the event up to a maximum of Rs. 5 Lakhs or 50% of the event cost, whichever is lower. iii. The Telangana Shops & Establishments Act, 1988 ii. 50% Exhibition stall rental cost or Rs. 50,000, whichever is lower, will be reimbursed for participating in the notified national/international exhibitions limited to 9 sq.mts. of space. iv. The Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act 1970 c. IT companies setting up operations in rural locations will be permitted to avail renewable energy under open access system from within the state after paying cost component to DISCOMs as fixed by ERC v. The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (subject to a maximum of one third of their total power requirements) vi. The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 d. 50% investment subsidy on fixed capital Investment, with a maximum limit per unit of Rs. 40 Lakhs vii. The Employment Exchanges limited to the first 3 companies. Thereafter, investment subsidy shall be fixed at 10%, with a maximum (Compulsory Notification of limit per unit of Rs. 8 Lakhs. Vacancies) Act, 1959 e. Rental subsidy of 25% per square feet for three years for the first 3 companies. Thereafter, rental subsidy viii. General permission for three shift shall be fixed at 10% per square feet for three years. operations with women working in f. 25% reimbursement on Internet and Telephone charges for the first 3 years of operations. the night for IT/ITES units/ g. 100% exemption from payment of SD/EMD and cost of tender document. companies h. Workforce Development ix. Fibre based connectivity support with two Internet Service Providers i. As a part of Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge (TASK), the Government of Telangana will create skill development centres and Faculty Development programs for colleges and training institutions in rural areas ii. Training subsidy of Rs. 2,500/month/person for 6 months. iii. Recruitment Assistance at the rate of Rs. 20,000 per employee for a minimum annual recruitment of 50 new IT professionals from the colleges located in Telangana. This assistance will be managed and disbursed by TASK. iv. Rs. 10 Lakhs subsidy to bridge the viability gap for first year for first 3 anchor units across all locations http://it.telangana.gov.in Jayesh Ranjan IAS Secretary to Government Information Technology, Electronics & Communications Department Government of Telangana D - Block 2nd Floor Room No. 315A Telangana Secretariat Hyderabad-500 022 P: +91 40 2345 6401 F: +91 40 2345 0103 secy_itc@telangana.gov.in jayesh_ranjan@hotmail.com