V1. May, 2021 User Manual: For Startup Registration This document’s purpose is to provide a play-by-playto a new Startup Registrant on the usage of Telangana’s Startup Portal. The nature of this portalis subject to changes as and when required. Feedback from registrants is welcome. You can writetosupport-startup@telangana.gov.in. STEP 1: REGISTRATION/ SIGNING IN After reaching the login page, enter your accountcredentials or sign in using your Startup India credentials. If this is your first time, click on “Register”. 2 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana CHAT BOT: As part of Startup Telangana, we want to be with youevery step of the way. If you have any queries, you can always interact with our chat-botassistant. To close the chat, press on “X”, and continue withyour login/registration process. 3 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 2: CREATING AN ACCOUNT/ SIGNING UP Enter the details that are asked for in the Sign Upsheet. Specifically, your First Name, Last Name, Official Email-id, Functional Phone Number anda Strong Password. Click on “Sign-up”, once you’ve entered the correct details.In case you receive an error message, re-check your details or reach out tosupport-startup@telangana.gov.in 4 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana After pressing on “Sign Up”, ideally, this is thealert that should pop-up on your screen. 5 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 3: EMAIL VERIFICATION Once you’ve got your credentials confirmed, you willreceive a confirmation email on your entered email-id; for verification.Click on “VerifyEmail”. Once that is done, you will be redirected to the portaland will see a confirmation message on your screen. Press OK, to continue. 6 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 4: SIGN-IN & UPDATE PERSONAL INFORMATION Post the verification, you will need to sign in withyour verified email-id and password. You will then be redirected to a page to fill in basicdetails to set up your profile. The first page will ask for the applicant’s Personal Information. 7 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana 8 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 5: UPDATE STARTUP INFORMATION The second part of the Basic Details will ask detailsregarding the Name/Nature of the Startup, its area of focus, and its stage of growth.The information here is encouraged to be clear and precise, as the data will be automaticallysaved and fetched in your startup recognition application, if you choose to fill inthe rest of the details at a later time. 9 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana CONGRATULATIONS! Your Basic Profile at this stage is ready, lookingsomething like this: In order to be recognised by the Government of TelanganaState, continue finishing your profile, by clicking “Yes”. Startups that are recognisedby the Govt. are more likely to avail benefits and claim for incentives from the State.We highly recommend you to apply for the startup recognition. If you want to continue the process later, then press“Remind me later”. 10 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 6: STARTUP RECOGNITION DETAILS (i) 6.1: Authorization: Confirm your role at your entity/startup,by choosing the appropriate option. The details filled during setting up of theBasic Profile will be automatically populated in the startup recognition form fields. 6.2: Details of the Entity Fill in the entity’s details as per the IncorporationCertificate and other official documents. The following details of the company needs to be accurate: - Company Incorporation Number - Date of Incorporation - Area of Incorporation - Entity’s Permanent Account Number (PAN) - Entity’s Tax Deduction Account Number (TAN) Press “Next” after filling these details out 11 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana 12 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 7: STARTUP RECOGNITION DETAILS (ii) The second section asks similar details as in theBasic Profile. An additional website/any online presence is asked for, in this section. Ensureto fill a minimum of 150 characters while filling in details for 2.e, 2.f and 2.g. Press“Next”, when done. 13 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 8: STARTUP RECOGNITION DETAILS (iii) The third section asks for the contact details ofthe applicant, the entity's directo and or PoC. Here, you can nominate a PoC for the startupor, you can nominate yourself. Contact details will be asked of the PoC and contact+ address details of the Director will be asked. Multiple Directors’ details also can be givenby pressing the “+” symbol. 14 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana If you’re nominating a PoC: 15 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana If you nominate yourself: 16 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 9: STARTUP RECOGNITION DETAILS (iv) The second last step of the Recognition Process, isto submit the required proof/documents. Press “Next” when you’re done. 17 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana STEP 10: STARTUP RECOGNITION DETAILS (v) The last step is the Declaration Form, where you choosebetween “Yes” or “No”, for the confirmation-related questions. Press “Submit”, whenyou’re done. 18 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana Are you sure? Once you’ve submitted details for recognition, youwill not be able to change them. The application you provide is the one that will be reviewed.Ensure that you’ve provided the accurate details. In case you need any assistance,reach out to: support-startup@telangana.gov.in 19 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana PORTAL DASHBOARD Once you’ve filled in your details for Startup Recognition,the request will be processed, the status for which, you can see on your Dashboard. 20 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana Menu Bar The top left menu button, will give you access todifferent aspects of the portal. The Incentives that the State provides, along with detailsof your eligibility for each. Access to Mentors. Any grievances you want to raise. And, yourProfile Details. 21 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana Incentives Page 22 Disclaimer: Property of Startup Telangana, Dept.of ITE&C, Govt. of Telangana