Telangana State’s Mentorship Mechanisms Standard Operating Procedures Definition: Mentorship is about mutual trust, understanding, learningand growth. The Government of Telangana believes that Mentorship is beyond just providing technical advice. It’s a companionship filled with insights. We encourage Startups and Mentors to make meaningful connections with each other to create sustainable impact for the Ecosystem, State and the Country. Why Mentorship? Mentoring is a key support that the Government of Telangana wishes to provide to its Startups. It is through exploration and trial, that a Startup truly grows and Mentoring provides the space for that. Pillars 1 & 3 under the Telangana’s Innovation Policy of 2016, specifically talk about Mentorship that must be provided to Startups in order to ensure growth and provide human capital support. To bring this into execution, The Government of Telangana has built a dedicated mechanism on the State Startup Portal through which Startups can avail Mentorship. Link: https://startup.telangana.gov.in/mentors/ This portal provides Startups’ access to over 110 mentors (and growing), and with a special Mentorship Form that allows registered Startups to formally request for Mentorship. How to avail Mentorship? The State Startup Portal allows for any Startup orEntrepreneur to have access to Mentors. Startups that are registered with Startup Telangana, have the option to request for Mentorship if ever they feel the need to have technical or experientialsupport. These Startups don’t have to be recognised by the State, making the option of supportdemocratic. These are the steps for Startups to avail Mentorship: Step 1: Create an Account Register yourself with Startup Telangana by providing basic details of the applicant and of the Startup Screenshot of Sign-up / Registration Page Step 2: Mentorship Section After creating the account, Startups can choose the Mentorship page on their internal dashboard, which will reflect in the menu (top left corner).Here, they can have a look at all the Mentors that the State has access to. Each Mentor’s professionaland experiential bio is written, allowing Startups to know a little more than just their nameand profession. Mentorship in internal dashboard Mentors along with their bios Step 3: Fill Mentorship Form Startups can then Request for Mentorship, by clicking the ‘Request Mentorship’ button (as per the screenshot above) This will then lead them to the Mentorship Form where they can fill a detailed application. They are required to fill: - Purpose of seeking mentorship - in a sentence - The problem for which they are seeking mentorship - in detail - They are also required to select the aspects in which they need help. The form allows them to pick between 12 main areas (each ofwhich have sub-areas) in which they require support: ○ General Mentorship ○ HR ○ Product/Design ○ GTM ○ Branding and PR ○ Marketing channels ○ Sales ○ Funding and Capital ○ Accounting and Finance ○ Legal ○ Management ○ Product and Design - They are then required to choose the urgency of the request Mentorship Request Form Once the form is submitted, the Startup Telangana team will map the Startup to a Mentor that is relevant to the problem statement, after having understoodthe extent of the problem and deciding the number of hours it may require. The team will then confirm the Mentor's interest in providing Mentorship to the Startup. The Startup Telangana team will respond to any Mentorship request within 7 days - at the latest.