GOVERNMENT OF TEI.ANGANA I NFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ETECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT Dote:09.06.2021 Sub:- ITE&C Dept., - ETRM - offerings under Telongono Al Fromework - Reg. Ref:- Telongono Al Fromework &&& The ottention of oll Stortups working in the Artificiol lntelligence ond ollied sectors in the Stote is informed of the reference cited. 2' Government of Telongono hos ployed o pivotol role in encouroging Stortups working in Emerglng Technology domoins by creoting on enobling environment bocked with o string of decisive policies ond fromeworks. The Government hos creoted o verticol or wing colled "Emerging Technologies Wing" for emerging technologies with the objective to develop the ecosystem required for the induitry ond to moke the Government Deportments leveroge or odopt emerging technologies. Governmeni of Telongono in its bid to support innovotion ihrough disruption hor co1.1,1e up with fovouroble polices ond fromeworks for encouroging Stortups ond entrepreneurs in the fields of Blockchoin, Al, Drones, Electric Vehicle, Cyber Security, Cloud Adoption omong others. 3. The Yeor of 2020 wos declored os the Yeor of Al for the stote by Hon'ble lT Minister Sri K.T.Romo Roo with o vision to position Telongono os o globol hub of Artificiol lntelligence ond foster sociol innovotion. The Telongono Government hos forged vorious portnerships with industry leoders, ocodemio, non-profii orgonizotions, etc. ond is ploying o pivoiol role in Al Adoption os it is expected to tionsform the globol economy ond eorly odopters will hove first-mover odvontoge. 4. To reolise ihe obove vision, the stote of Telongono formuloted the first stote specific Artificiol lntelligence Fromework to toke up severol initiotives for developing o conducive ecosystem for its growth in the stote. The Al Fromework intends to oddresisix identified pillors such os, Doto Exchonge Plotform ond HPAIC, Skilling ond Educotion, Governonce, Ethics ond Privocy, Reseorch ond lnnovotion, Enobling Adoption ond Community Colloborotion, Al lnnovestment Fund; ond focus oreos srch os, Heolthcore, Agriculture, Mobility, Educotion Low ond Enforcemeni. 5. The Government of Telongono olso conceptuolized the 'Telongono's Al Mission (T-A|M)' ond hos set up the body in portnership with NASSCOM. T-Attut sholl speorheod the initiotives identified under the Al Fromework ond sholl ossist the stote government in occeleroting the process of positioning Telongono os o leoding Globol Artificiol lntelligence lnnovotion hub. T-AlM sholl set up on Al Accelerotor progrom ond provide occess to High Performonce Computing Cenire for stortups, forge-porinerships with ocodemio ond industry to undertoke cutting edge reseorch, engoge the Al ecosystem for identifying solutions for government use-coses especiotty in ihJ focus oreos of the fromework, ond be responsible for oll other Al reloted iniiiotives of the siote. 6. The Government of Telongono hos eormorked to estoblish the Al-lnnovestment Fund, o humonitorion investmeni fund dedicoted to Al lnnovotion for Sociol Good. The fund will copture the opportunity trinity of emerging Al economy, rise of impoct investing. ond tech investments. The objectives of the fund will be to roise funds for ,,Al for sociol good" stortups which comply with ESG criterio; ond finoncing projects with o theme of "Al for sociol good". 7. The Al Fromework focuses on lnternship Progrom for students. The Stote will portner wiih incubotors/occelerotors ocross the stote to offer Telongono,s college students the opportunities to work with Al Stortups ond receive college credits 6n successful completion of internship. 8. Additionolly, regording IPR filing, the Al Fromework mentions thot it provides support to the Stortups/SMEs/lnnovoiors in educoting them obout the importonce ond procedure of IPR filing. 9. Hence, oll the Stortupsworking in the Artificiol lntelligence ond ollied sectors in the Stote ore requested to occess the Al Fromework through the below mentioned link ond explore the vorious offerings ovoiloble under its ombit. https://stortup.telongono.gov.inlwp-content/uplood s12021 l04l Al-framework.pdf JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAT SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To All the Componies & Stortups in Telongono. Copy to: Telongono Stote lnnovotion Cell, / Telongono Acodemy for Skill ond Knowledge (TASK)/ T-HUB / WE HUB /Reseorch ond lnnovotion Circle of Hyderobod (RICH) /T Works :: //TORWARDED BY ORDER// lOl**"bfua- r SECTION OFFICER