Framework Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 02 of 18 Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 03 of 18 Index 1 Preface 4 5 2 Vision 3 Key Pillars 6 3.1 Developing Talent Pool.................................................... 6 3.2 Supporting Infrastructure............................................. 8 3.3 Promoting Research and Innovation............................ 9 3.4 Enabling Collaboration and Building Community...... 11 4 Focus Areas of the State 13 5 Incentives 15 5.1 Incentives to Enterprises............................................... 15 5.2 Incentives to Start-ups.................................................... 16 5.3 Incentives to Other Entities........................................... 16 5.4 Non-Financial Incentives ................................................. 17 Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 04 of 18 Preface 1 echnology presents evolving challenges and generates new solutions. Blockchain is seen as a technology with a potential to disrupt almost all indutries and economies. Blockchain technology offers a decentralized, secure, and efficient way to manage transactions across multiple parties in a business network. Developers, companies, and governments recognize the potential and have already started coming up with many use cases of implementation. It is estimated that Blockchain in 2030 could generate $3 trillion/year in business value. It is possible to imagine blockchain powering 10-20% of our global economic infrastructure by then. The ‘World Economic Forum’ anticipates that 10% of global GDP will be stored on the blockchain by 2025. Use cases of this technology may be different but what remains unchanged are the benefits derived from using the technology as it provides solution to the commonly faced problems today in terms of transparency, immutability, redundancy and security of data and systems. Apart from Financial Services, Capital Markets, Insurance, Government, Health, Education and a host of other consumer services are making significant investments in research and development to see how they can harness blockchain. As the industries across embark upon the journey of adoption of blockchain technology, Government will have a crucial role to play. Government is seen as a facilitator for providing a conducive environment to the industry players through much needed interventions on regulatory reforms, skill and capacity building, standardization, interoperability, infrastructure and security measures. An Indus- try-Government collaboration is critical to ensure that a conducive environment is created for the technology to mature. Hyderabad, the capital city of Telangana is uniquely positioned to take a leadership role in the development of blockchain technology due to the critical mass of industries leveraging blockchain technology located in Hyderabad (finan- cial services, insurance, pharmaceuticals and life sciences, supply chain and logistics etc.), access to talent, support of entrepreneurship, and collaboration with enterprises. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 05 of 18 Vision 2 n line with its vision to be a leader in While the Blockchain District acts as an emerging technologies, the government anchor around which the blockchain of Telangana has taken up several ecosystem will develop, this policy initiatives to develop a conducive s ets the strategic direction and is based ecosystem for the industry in the State. around four main pillars: Realizing the potential of Blockchain technology, the government in con- sultation with the industry is working towards making Hyderabad an active Developing Talent Pool hub in this technology and the State envisions: To make Hyderabad as one of the top 10 Blockchain Cities of the world. Promoting Research & Innovation Taking a giant leap in this direction, the Government of Telangana has concep- tualized India’s first Blockchain District which which will be a physical area Supporting within Hyderabad and will aim to create Infrastructure the world's best blockchain technology ecosystem. The Blockchain District will house all major blockchain technology companies, will have a huge incubator and a world-class facility for promoting Enabling Collaboration research, innovation and industry and Building Community collaboration. This one of its kind initia- tives will aim to put all blockchain companies based out of Hyderabad at a strategically advantageous position globally. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 06 of 18 Key Pillars 3 3.1 Developing Talent Pool he cost of talent is the largest expen- 3. An elite certification program will be se for most technology firms, and the designed to a select few techies with quality of talent is becoming one of stringent screening tests. This program the most important differentiators. With will be run in collaboration with the a long-term taent-supply focus, the State industry players with placement will facilitate introduction of formal prospects. The professionals graduating education and certification programs out of this program would go on to to meet the growing demand for become the most sought after skilled resources as the blockchain blockchain developers inthe industry. technology adoption matures. Special programs will be created, and initiatives 4. The State will encourage its industry will be taken to build the talent pool partners to offer internships to students in Telangana: who may secure a pre-placement offer at the end of the internship. 1. Telangana will provide institutional support through Telangana Academy for 5. The State will encourage technology Skill and Knowledge (TASK) to deliver To make Hyderabad as one of institutions in Telangana to add blockchain courses to engineering blockchain in their curriculum and the top 10 Blockchain Cities of students in the state. These courses provide option for their students to will be designed in partnership with the world. undergo certificate programs in some of the most experienced players blockchain technology from TSB or from in the blockchain industry. premier institutes in Telangana. 2. One of the most important focus areas is re-skilling and up-skilling of the 6. Public enterprises and government existing workforce for the future agencies will encourage their employees demand. There are many blockchain cer- or professionals to undergo workshops tification programs that have sprung launched in blockchain technology to up and it is becoming increasingly diffi- facilitate better adoption within cult for the developers to choose the government. right and credible program. The government will partner with industry to establish a training and certification agency in the state. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 07 of 18 7. Government shall partner with blockchain protocol ecosystem players to facilitate educational workshops and conferences that will allow practitioners and experts to provide specific insight and illustrate practical application and foster innovation through hackathons, national challenges, boot camps, and accelerators. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 08 of 18 3.2 Supporting Infrastructure Blockchain, like other emerging technolo- 1. The government will provide office gies, is going through phases of explora- space to house all the blockchain tion, pilot tests, early adoption and finally start-ups, co-working and incubation implementation to reap the intended spaces at highly subsidized prices. value. Companies and innovators take a 2. To foster innovation in Blockchain cautious approach towards making technology, a sandbox for prominent significant capex investment that may be blockchain protocols will be created needed before the technology adoption that will allow simulation and prototyp- starts making commercial promise. The ing of solutions. This sandbox will aggregation of interested stakeholders provide safe environment, within for shared usage of required controlled boundaries, for businesses infrastructure for testing, develop to test, develop and provide innovative and initial deployment of blockchain Blockchain products and services. solutions is one way of optimizing the cost while paving the way for continu- 3. An international liaison office of the ous research and development. Blockchain district will created to collaborate with international players to Government of Telangana will support bring in investments and for exchange of the use of shared infrastructure, both knowledge and practices. IT as well as physical, to encourage research, prototyping and development 4. IT infrastructure facility for provision of blockchain solutions in the state. of cloud hosted computing and storage Telangana State will work towards crea- through T-Cloud will be extended at tion of shared infrastructure facilities subsidized rates thus allowing for a which can be utilized by start-ups, industry, communities and academia future vision of Blockchain as a Service either at nominal cost or free of cost. provided by the Blockchain District. The state would take up some specific steps in this direction, as detailed below: Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 09 of 18 3.3 Promoting Research and Innovation 1. The Blockchain District will provide a The international liaison office platform for Academic institutions and of the Blockchain district will Industry to come together and provide collaborate with international students hands-on industry experience start-ups/ companies and through internships on the real-life encourage such companies to implementation and problem solving open their offices in the state. around the technology. Universities and technical institutions of Telangana will be promoted and encouraged to 3. Research, innovation and prototype build partnerships with the technology development shall be promoted in companies to undertake research in innovative solutions in blockchain design this technology and build solutions and and developing of Cryptographic skil- ls supporting the future initiatives Algorithms and Security Protocols. of the private and public sector. 4. Government will facilitate partnership of select industry players with Block- 2. The innovation ecosystem will only chain District to set-up incubators or flourish when there exists a continuous accelerators to promote innovation in flow of ideas. To ensure the the blockchain technology. Telangana development of research and shall support select incubators and innovation, the state will encourage accelerators with specific packages/ sup- immigration of tale- nt to the state: port depending on the strategic value of the product or solution. 5. Government will fund re- The state will collaborate with search corporates to start the research programs in blockchain technology fellowship that would sponsor by researchers in blockchain setting up a research chairs in select technology to undertake research premier institutes and fund research in Telangana. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 10 of 18 6. For researchers in Telangana who get recognition for their blockchain research at several important international plaforms will be facilitated at the flagship annual blockchain event. They will also stand an opportunity to win an all-expense paid trip to one of the major Blockchain academic conferences around the world. 7. Government, in partnership with the industry and academia will organize an annual academic conference for all Blockchain researchers in the state to showcase their work. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 11 of 18 3.4 Enabling Collaboration and Building Community We believe that enabling collaboration 2. Developer communities played a major and building community are very critical role in flourishment of several technol- to tap the potential capabilities of the ogy domains such as ERP, CRM, ITSM etc. growing blockchain industry. Telangana Government recognizes that establish- government regards its role in the ment of such communities play a pivotal development of the blockchain role for technologies like Blockchain as ecosystem as one which supports the well. And hence, government plans to distinct needs of the respective provide blockchain communities with stakeholders, entrepreneurs, capital necessary infrastructure and sponsor- providers, developers, governments, and ship for meetups/gatherings/events. The academics. To accomplish this mission, government will also encourage new there are various initiatives that the and upcoming blockchain communities by government will take up: providing appropriate support. 3. For Telangana to be known globally as 1. Since cryptocurrencies’ popularity the blockchain hub, it is imperative that overshadows that of blockchain’s, many all the great work tha t is being done people still tend to confuse between within the state gets noticed the two. Because the blockchain internationally. The government plans technology is still new, there’s a lack to partner with blockchain start-ups of general awareness within the larger /companies to create compelling developer community. The government success stories on all the relevant will run strategically designed aware- public/private projects within the state ness program to tackle this challenge. and showcase them in global blockchain The government will run these programs conferences/ events. in collaboration with recognised industry associations. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 12 of 18 4. The government will organize an block chain consortiums at national and annual event every year with the aim of international levels. The access to making it the most sought after current market knowledge and highly blockchain gathering in the world, thus regarded subject matter experts, which establishing Telangana as the these industry organizations and blockchain capital. consortium memberships provide, will ensure the State is highly informed 5. The government will launch a virtual and well positioned to execute its policy. community for all the relevant stake- holders in the blockchain ecosystem viz. 7. Government shall utilise the indus- industry, governments, start-ups, inves- try relationships to conduct seminars, tors, developers, and academia. workshops and lectures by renowned Companies can post requirements, job industry leaders and technologists in postings and the developers/start-ups this area to mentor start-ups and talent can connect directly on this virtual pool. Moreover, the government will help community. It will also act as a common in the formulation of ‘symbiotic clusters’ platform for everyone to interact, of blockchain innovation by connecting discuss ideas, seek inputs and start-ups, who can provide the collaborate on various initiatives. technology research, with established firms to supply developed applications 6. State will actively pursue member- at lower costs. ship with industry organizations and Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 13 of 18 Focus Areas of 4 the State hile digital currencies are initial users of Blockchain technology, application of the technology is catching Formation of focus group, up fast in sectors such as Banking, consortium to bring together the Manufacturing, Financial Services, Insur- industry player (national and ance, Healthcare and others. The international) having common Telangana State will have a objective of promoting adoption focussed approach to harness sector of blo- ckchain technology within specific opportunities and deal with the s- ector worldwide. the underlying hurdles in partnership with the industry. Shaping up a conducive regula- tory framework in tune with the sector need. 1. Industry sectors will have varied scope for adoption and scaling up of Encourage the developers, Blockchain technology. Further, each researchers, start-up community sector will firms, considered as IT in th- e state to work closely on units below ICT industry incentives, sector specific solutions and use are automatically applicable to block- cases. This is aimed to chain firms operating out of Telangana. bring down the cost of research, prototyping, development in the 2. While Telangana State will remain evolutionary stages while committed to promote the technology expediting the adoption of adoption across all sectors, it will have technology within the se- ctor. a dedicated focus for selected ones to start with. The following sectors have Support creation of local talent been identified as high potential sectors pool in keeping with unique dema- of Blockchain adoption: nd of the sectore adoption of technology within the sector. 3. The state will work closely with the stakeholders in the chosen sectors with a clear four-point agenda as under : Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 14 of 18 5. The State has been at the forefront in piloting or implementing various use cases in securing certificates, and records and microfinance area. New use cases will be identified in areas such as voting, financial transactions between the vernment agencies and citizen or contractors, supply chain visibility in agriculture and citizen registration that can have high impact on some of the systemic problems faced. Government of Telangana will continue to work clos- ely with the Line Departments to identify new projects and use cases leveraging Blockchain technology. Banking, financial services Government departments and insurance (BFSI) & Institutions Pharmaceuticals Logistics & Supply Chain & Health care Energy Real Estate Life Sciences Blockchain Framework 2019 Page15 of 18 Incentives 5 overnment of Telangana provides 3. A tailor-made incentive package will be fiscal and non-fiscal resources such provided for mega blockchain projects or as access to investments, subsidies, tax marquee blockchain companies. credits or exemptions, state-of-the art infrastructure facilities, technical institutions and universities for the Enterprises, SMEs and start-up firms that invest efforts in research and innovation in emerging technol- ogies. Relevant incentives mentioned in the GO on Incentives for Expansion of IT/ITeS 2016 shall be applicable for Blockchain technology firms. In addition to the incentives mentioned in the IT/ITeS and Innova- tion Policy, the following incentives shall be provided to companies devel- oping blockchain products and deliver- ing blockchain services: 4. Land will be allotted at subsidized rates to blockchain companies by 5.1 Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Incentives Corporation Limited, the guidelines to Enterprises specified for regular ICT companies in terms of annual revenue, investment promises, employment creation promises 1. 25% subsidy on lease rentals up to will be partially relaxed for blockchain INR 5,00,000 per annum for the first 3 firms. years of operations. 5. For all the research projects spon- 2. 50% subsidy on the exhibition rentals sored by companies in technical for the SMEs (firms operating out of universities, an equal amount of Telangana) participating in national or investment will be made by the govt. international exhibitions limited to 9 Sq. for up to INR 5 Lakhs per year for next mts of space. three years. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 16 of 18 5.2 Incentives to Start-ups Assistance in Patent Filing – Reimbursement of 50% of the cost of filing patents, subject to a 1. 100% reimbursement of State Goods maximum of INR 5 Lakhs. and Services Tax (SGST) for a period of three years to start-ups with revenues Costs for Quality Certifications – less than INR 5 Crores. 50% subsidy on the expenses incurred for quality certification 2. 75% reimbursement for travel and limited to a maximum of INR 5 ticket costs for selected Blockchain Lakhs. conferences across the globe subject to a maximum of INR 2 Lakhs per year per 6. 25% reimbursement on internet start-up in the first 2 years of operation charges up to a maximum of INR 2.5 for selected start-ups. Lakhs per year for the first 3 years. 3. R&D grant up to 10% of the R&D expenses or up to 2% of the annual turnover whichever is lesser to the start-ups innovating in blockchain technology in Telangana. 5.3 4. One-time start-up grant of INR 10 Incentives Lakhs will be provided to a maximum of to Other Entities 10 blockchain start-ups per year for the next three years. These selected start-ups will be mentored by industry partners of the Blockchain District. 1. Any organization conducting a blockchain related conference/event 5. To better support innovation in this can approach the Government to seek technology, further incentives in the sponsorship support. The Government areas of Patent Filing and Quality will offer a sponsorship of INR 125 Certification will be made available: Lakhs based on the scale, quality, and uniqueness of the event. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 17 of 18 2. All Blockchain related communities in Hyderabad will be provided venues for meetups, gatherings, and small-scale a. The factories Act 1948. events at no or subsidized cost. b. The Maternity Benefit Act 1961. c. The Telangana Shops and Estab- lishment Act 1988. d. The Contract Labour Act (Regu- ation & Abolition) Act 1970. 5.4 e. The Payment of Wages Act 1936. Non-Financial f. The Minimum Wages Act 1948 Incentives g. The Employee Exchanges (Com- By virtue of working in the technology, pulsory Notification of Vacancies) the blockchain product firms, consid- Act 1959. ered as IT units below ICT industry incentives, are automatically applicable to blockchain firms operating out of Telangana. 3. General permission will be 1. Firms are exempt from the purview of provided for three shift operations The Pollution Control Act, except in with women working in the night as respect of IT Parks/IT SEZ campuses these firms provide services to global with built up areas more than 20,000 sq. customers. mt. 4. Firms services will be declared as 2. Firms are exempt from inspections essential services under Telangana under Acts and the Rules framed there State Essential Services Maintenance under, barring inspections arising out of Act. complaints. The firms are permitted to self-certificates in the prescribed formats. Blockchain Framework 2019 Page 18 of 18 This document contains information that is proprietary and confidential to ITE&C Department, Government of Telangana and shall not be disclosed outside the recipient's company or duplicated, used or disclosed in whole or in part by the recipient for any purpose other than to evaluate this document. Any other use or disclosure in whole or in part of this information without the express written permission of ITE&C Department, Government of Telangana is prohibited.