GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT ITE&C Department - Promotion & Identification of Women Entrepreneurs & Women-led Startups – Classification of Women Entrepreneurs & Women-Led Enterprises – Orders – Issued. Information Technology, Electronics & Communications Department (Women Entrepreneurs & Women-ledStart-ups) G.O.Ms.No. 7 Dated: 27-07-2021 ORDER: - 1. In order to encourage women entrepreneurs and women-led enterprises, the Telanana State has announced several schemes and policies. To better enforce these policies, the State has decided that the following definitions will be utilized to define women-led enterprises, women-led startups and women entrepreneurs. 2. Definition of Woman Entrepreneur/ Women-Led Enterprises/ Women-Led Startups: The Government of Telangana will adopt the under-mentioned definitions for identifying and supporting Women Entrepreneurs & Women-led Start-ups in the State: A. Women-led Startups: A women-led startup is a startup registered either with DPIIT (or) the Government of Telangana (or) an enterprise registered through Udyam registration with the Ministry of MSME, GOI, which meets the following criteria: At the time of registration, the startup should be owned and controlled by a woman or a group of women having a minimum financial interest of 51% of capital in the startup. Subsequently, even after funding rounds, at least 33% of the startup should be owned by a woman or a group of women with: i. At least 33% of the votes in the Board of Directors being held by women (or) ii. At least 33% of the leadership (or) CXO team made up of women. B. Woman Entrepreneurs: A Woman Entrepreneur is defined as a woman that meets any one of the following criteria: i. The woman should be a founder or a co-founder of a registered start-up either holding voting rights in the Board of Directors or holding a leadership role in the start-up. (or) ii. The woman should hold a minimum financial interest of 20% of capital in a registered start-up with voting rights in the Board of Directors or holding a leadership role in the start-up. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) JAYESH RANJAN PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To The CEOs of T-HUB, TSIC, WE-HUB, TASK, TSAT, RICH All the Departments of Secretariat. (PTO) ::2:: Copy to: The Director, Digital Media, ITE&C Dept. The CEO, SERP, PR&RD. The Commissioner of Industries. The PS to Hon’ble Minister for ITE&C, I&C. The PS to the Chief Secretary to Government. The PS to All Special Chief Secretaries / Principal Secretaries / Secretaries of all Departments of the Secretariat. //FORWARDED::BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER