INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR STARTUPS BY TELANGANA GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS OPEN DATA APIs STARTUP ECOSYSTEM IN TELANGANA Telangana is one of the most preferred business destinations for Electronics, Information Technology (IT) and Pharma in India, ranking second in terms of IT exports. The state is continually striving to maintain this position and establish itself as the most preferred technology investment destination in the country, by creating a strong entrepreneurial ecosystem in the state. To progress along these lines, the government has established and supported numerous eco-system enablers for startups and entrepreneurs such as IMAGE Tower, T-WORKS, T-HUB, RICH, We-Hub, T-Fiber and TASK. In addition, there is a cluster of world-class research centers in the city, such as Central Pharma Research Institute, the Defence Research Development Organisation laboratories and numerous world-class pharmaceutical labs. Telangana’s startup ecosystem and entrepreneurship has received global accolades. The 2020 Global Startup Ecosystem Report (GSER) by Startup Genome and the Global Entrepreneurship Network has put the State among the top 30 Global Ecosystems for Affordable Talent in 2020 and Hyderabad is among the Top 100 Emerging Ecosystems Ranking in 2020 and Startup Genome evaluated about 300 ecosystems globally. IMPORTANCE OF DATA & TELANGANA OPEN DATA POLICY Government plays a critical role to help enable value creation, manage risks, and engage stakeholders in open data. Government data is a critical resource that can be used to improve operations, drive innovation, deliver better services to citizens and improve transparency. Government data is recognized at all levels as a valuable resource that should be made publicly available, maintained, updated and made available in real time to ensure that it’s true potential is realized. The Telangana State Open Data Policy is the first step in opening up Government data. The policy sets the necessary framework in place to operationalize the State Open Data Portal https://data.telangana.gov.in/. The policy has many enabling provisions in place for various stake holders. Some benefits of the Telangana Open Data policy are:-  Encourage more extensive use of a valuable public resource  Avoid having separate bodies to collect the same data  Possibility of greater integration of individual databases  Identification of owners of principal data sets  Quality information will allow competent decision making  Better access of data by all bonafides INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT BY TELANGANA GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS FOR STARTUPS IN TERMS OF OPEN DATA Government of Telangana has played a decisive role in engaging with companies and Startups. The State with its Open Data Policy launched in the year 2016 has revolutionized the open data platform and opened up government data to a host of potential applications. The Open Data Policy of Government of Telangana is supported by the Open Data Platform which acts as the central repository of all the datasets of the Government of Telangana that should be in the public domain. In order to contribute in transparency of Government data and in facilitating Companies and Startups exploit gaps across markets and identify business opportunities, create new products and services, and develop new business models, around 26 State Government Departments has shared more than 200 datasets in Open Data Platform of Telangana. The datasets are uploaded and segregated based on various Topics, Tags and Departments. Data can be downloaded as a csv file, xlsx file, docx file or bin. The various datasets published by the State Government Departments are indicated in the circulars issued by these Departments which are published in the Telangana Startup portal for reference. The datasets published by various State Government Departments can be accessed by anyone by following the under-mentioned steps:-  Step 1 – Visit the website https://data.telangana.gov.in/  Step 2 – Click on the tab ‘Datasets’  Step 3 – Select from the left menu based on the type of datasets you are looking for based on Topics, Tags and Departments  Step 4 – Select the dataset from the list of datasets displayed  Step 5 – Preview or Download the csv file, xlsx file, docx file based on the availability against the selected dataset -------------------END------------------