Funding and Incentives – Startup Telangana Department of ITE &C, Government of Telangana tsic@telangana.gov.in About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login Register About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login Register About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact About Vision Leadership Nodal Officer Nodal Team Dedicated team for Startups Nodal Department Know Your Ecosystem State Startup Network Startups State Startup Policy Startup Definition Startup Recognition Registration Manual Approval and Clearances Startup Dashboard Funding Funding and Incentives Public Procurement Investors Co Working Women Entrepreneurship Enablers Government Innovation Incubators and Accelerators List of state recognized incubators Other Incubators / Accelerator list Incubation Support to Startups by State Supported Incubators Academia Programs Events Corporates Capacity Building For Enablers Information Wizard Policies/GOs/Circulars&Schemes Government Policies Government Orders Circulars and Schemes Institutional Support from Government Department Standard Operating Procedure Intellectual Property Regulations Grievance Submit Grievance Track Grievance Frequently Asked Questions – Grievance Events Contact Login/Register Funding and Incentives Home Funding and Incentives Reimbursement of SGST Reimbursement of International Marketing Reimbursement of the Patent Registration expenses Reimbursement of Recruitment Assistance Performance related grant Grants for the startups with grassroot/rural impact Public Procurement incentives for startups with grassroot/rural impact T-Fund Initiative T-Spark Initiative Telangana State Innovations with Rural Impact (TSIRI) Incentives Reimbursement of SGST Eligibility All eligible startups shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form and attach the documents mentioned on the portal given at Annexure – II for Reimbursement of SGST within six months after completion of every half year i.e., last date for filing claim application is 31st of March for first half-year and 30th of September for the second half-year. Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation cell, on receipt of the required documents, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible reimbursement shall be recommended by the nodal office. Apply Now Reimbursement of International Marketing Costs Trade Shows Eligibility All eligible startups shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form and attach the documents mentioned on the portal given at Annexure – III for Reimbursement of 30% of the annual cost in International marketing through trade shows, limited to a subsidy of INR 5 lacs per company during the first 3 years of incorporation. Additionally to claim the reimbursement under this incentive, the startup application needs to be endorsed by one of the state supported incubators (Format of endorsement Annexure – VI). Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation cell, on receipt of the required documents, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible reimbursement shall be recommended by the nodal office. All reimbursement recommendations will be presented to the startup council who shall then make a decision on sanction/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the startup council in this regard to sanctioning of any reimbursement under this incentive will be final Apply Now Reimbursement of the expenses incurred for Patent Registration Eligibility All eligible startups shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – IV for Reimbursement of the expenses incurred for patent registration within six months from the date of obtaining patent along with required documents mentioned in the Application on the portal. Eligible startups should have already filed or been granted a patent with the concerned authority and would have paid all the mandatory fees/expenses in this regard.100% Reimbursement of the expenses incurred for patent registration limited to Rs.2.00 Lakhs for Indian patent awarded. Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation cell, on receipt of the required documents, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible reimbursement shall be recommended by the nodal office. All reimbursement recommendations will be presented to the startup council who shall then make a decision on sanction/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the startup council in this regard to sanctioning of any reimbursement under this incentive will be final. Apply Now Reimbursement of Recruitment Assistance Eligibility All eligible startups shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – V for Reimbursement of reimbursement of recruitment assistance for an amount of INR 10,000 per employee for the first year of commercial operations. The startup should submit the list of Telangana domiciled employees who have been employed with the company for at least a period of 8 months as on the date of the appointment along with their appointment letters, domicile proof duly certified by the promoter. Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation cell, on receipt of the required documents, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible reimbursement shall be recommended by the nodal office. All reimbursement recommendations will be presented to the startup council who shall then make a decision on sanction/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the startup council in this regard to sanctioning of any reimbursement under this incentive will be final. Apply Now Performance Related Grant Eligibility All eligible startups shall submit their claims in the prescribed application form given at Annexure – VI for Performance related grant within nine months from the date of closing of a financial year. Startups that record a year-on-year growth rate of 15%, as per audited accounts, shall be eligible to get a grant of 5% on Annual Turnover, subject to a limit of INR 10 Lakhs within a period of three years from the date of incorporation Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation cell, on receipt of the required documents, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible reimbursement shall be recommended by the nodal office. All reimbursement recommendations will be presented to the startup council who shall then make a decision on sanction/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the startup council in this regard to sanctioning of any reimbursement under this incentive will be final Apply Now Grants for the startups with grassroot/rural impact PROCEDURE FOR CLAIMING GRANT OFFERED UNDER THE SCHEME: Preconditions for availing this incentive Recognized as a startup by Government of Telangana AND Recognized as a “Startup with Grassroot/Rural Impact” as per the definition mentioned in G.O.Ms.No. 8 dated 27-07-2021. Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation Cell, on receipt of the applications, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible grants shall be recommended by the nodal office. All grants recommendations will be presented to the Grassroot Advisory Council who shall then make a decision on sanction/work order/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the Grassroot Advisory Council in this regard to sanctioning of any work order/purchase order under this incentive will be final. Process of Application All eligible startups with grassroot/rural impact shall apply in the prescribed application form given below on the portal for Procurement related grant. Apply Now Public Procurement incentives for startups with grassroot/rural impact PROCEDURE FOR CLAIMING PROCUREMENT GRANT OFFERED UNDER THE SCHEME: Preconditions for availing this incentive Recognized as a startup by Government of Telangana AND Recognized as a “Startup with Grassroot/Rural Impact” as per the definition mentioned in G.O.Ms.No. 8 dated 27-07-2021. A letter of intent must be submitted by the competent authorities of the concerned government departments or district administrations. The startup may directly work with TSIC to source this letter of intent, if all other eligibility criteria are fulfilled. Know More Evaluation Process The Nodal Office, Telangana Innovation Cell, on receipt of the applications, will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence. On confirmation of the Startup eligibility, an assessment of the eligible grants shall be recommended by the nodal office. All grants recommendations will be presented to the Grassroot Advisory Council who shall then make a decision on sanction/work order/disbursement keeping in view the available budget for the year. The decision of the Grassroot Advisory Council in this regard to sanctioning of any work order/purchase order under this incentive will be final. Process of Application All eligible startups with grassroot/rural impact shall apply in the prescribed application form given below on the portal for Procurement related grant. Apply Now T-FUND Initiative T-Fund’s objective is to support the startup ecosystem of Telangana by investing in promising early-stage startups from the state of Telangana by primarily investing into equity, equity-linked instruments, compulsory convertible debt instruments, and other instruments such as compulsory convertible preference shares, compulsorily convertible debentures of enterprises engaged across sectors including with a horizontal theme of technology and innovation. T-Fund is primarily Co-Investment Fund where it shall invest alongside established Angels, Angel Networks, VC’s. T-Fund shall not invest more than 20% of its investible funds in any single portfolio company. T-Spark Initiative The Government of Telangana, through the Telangana Innovation Cell, launched the T-Spark initiative to provide funding and grant support for 155 startups at the early and seed stages. This grant intends to accelerate key aspects of their growth, including prototype building, talent development, R&D, and marketing efforts. In addition to financial support, the selected startups will gain access to mentoring, funding readiness guidance, and GTM (Go-To-Market) strategy support as they evolve. This initiative is a core component of the state’s larger vision to fuel a thriving entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem. Telangana State Innovations with Rural Impact (TSIRI) Incentives The state government has decided to give incentives to startups and innovations that solve the problems in rural areas. For this, the ITE&C department issued orders with G.O.Ms.No. 8 dated 27-07-2021. Accordingly, a total of Rs. 30 lakh corpus fund has been earmarked for 18 startups and innovators to support seed, prototype, pilot, and procurement grants. Contact Details Telangana Innovation Cell, Cabin 17, 3rd Floor, T-Hub 2.0, 20, Inorbit Mall Rd, Vittal Rao Nagar, Madhapur, Telangana 500081. Room 24, Floor 3, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Telangana Secretariat, Telangana Secretariat Rd, Khairatabad, Hyderabad, Telangana 500022. tsic@telangana.gov.in +91 9100678543 QUICK ACCESS Vision Know Your Ecosystem Policies/GOs/Circulars & Schemes Startup Definition Women Entrepreneurship Funding Incentives Locate Us Copyright © Government of Telangana. Developed by Outshade Eligibility 100% Services Tax (SGST) will be reimbursed for a period of three (3) years from the date of Incorporation on a maximum turnover of INR 1Crore/Annum. For amounts exceeding 2 lakhs, the startup shall obtain the details of the net tax paid during the half-year for which the claim is being duly certified by Commercial Tax authorities in form prescribed at Form-A. Eligibility Startups need to make the application within six months after completion of the trip. Reimbursement shall be for a maximum of 2 international events per company per year. Reimbursement amount will be released / disbursed on the basis of seniority within the organisation. Startup shall attach copies of receipts/invoices of all expenses clearly showing the names and dates of the trade shows/events. The following expenses can be claimed for reimbursement: Air fare – economy class only Rooms at lesser than USD 200/Night Participation fee or stall rental (upto 9 square meters) All local transport and food expenses upto a total of 100 USD/Day Eligibility Eligible startups should have already filed or been granted a patent with the concerned authority and would have paid all the mandatory fees/expenses in this regard. 100% Reimbursement of the expenses incurred for patent registration limited to Rs.2.00 Lakhs for Indian patent awarded. For awarded foreign patents, upto Rs. 10 lakh would be reimbursed per patent awarded. Patents filed and granted during the validity of the GO No 10 i.e 25-07-2017 – 25-07-2022 shall only be eligible to claim this reimbursement. This facility shall be available to all eligible for startups O/o Controller General of patents, designs and trademark other national/international certification agencies. Startups can avail of the reimbursement upto 2 times during the first five years of incorporation. Eligibility The pre condition for availing this incentive are: Startup needs to be in the first year of operation or At Least 50% of employees should be of Telangana origin. The startup should submit the list of Telangana domiciled employees who have been employed with the company for at least a period of 8 months as on the date of the appointment along with their appointment letters, domicile proof duly certified by the promoter. Eligibility Startups that record a year-on-year growth rate of 15%, as per audited accounts, shall be eligible to get a grant of 5% on Annual Turnover, subject to a limit of INR 10 Lakhs within a period of three years from the date of incorporation Terms of using the grant: Applications can be made to receive support under only one of the support-types in each cycle. (Support-Types: Prototype, Pilot Grant, Seed Grant). Support can be availed only once under each of the support-types for each startup. The grants will be disbursed on a milestone basis, which will be different for each of the selected applicants. A utilisation certificate has to be submitted upon using the grants. A detailed project report has to be submitted upon the completion of the project. Any pilot should not exceed more than 12 months. Terms of using the grant: A utilization certificate has to be submitted upon the execution of the Purchase Order/Work Order for the amount issued by the government. Upon completion of the PO/WO, a detailed project completion report along with pictures, utilization certificate from the authorized CA, and a letter of completion from the Government Department/ District Administration will have to be submitted. Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Accessibility Tools Increase Text Increase Text Decrease Text Decrease Text Grayscale Grayscale High Contrast High Contrast Negative Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Light Background Links Underline Links Underline Readable Font Readable Font Reset Reset