ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. Telangana’s AI Framework JUNE 2020 Index Preface 05 06 Vision AI Framework 07 08 Key Pillars Data Exchange Platform and HPAIC 10 12 Skilling and Education Governance, Ethics and Privacy 14 16 Research and Innovation Enabling Adoption and 18 Community Collaboration 19 AI-Innovestment Fund 4 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 Preface We stand on the brink Following are the key factors that have enabled the growth of a technological and expansion of Artificial revolution that will Intelligence: fundamentally alter the The volume of digital data way we live, work, and Currently, there are more than 2 relate to one another. connected devices for each and every person in the world. The In its scale, scope, number of connected devices has and complexity, the crossed the total population across transformation due to the globe in 2008. Industrial Revolution Ease of storing the data The cost of storing information 4.0 will be unlike is approaching zero - storing 1GB anything humankind costs an average of less than $0.03 has experienced before. a year today, compared to more than $10,000 20 years ago. The advancement of technology has not only Exponential improvement of Standing at the core of the computing power modified our approach fourth industrial revolution It is estimated that the computing towards traditional is Artificial Intelligence power needed to train AI is now sectors like HealthCare, (AI), which is becoming an rising seven times faster than ever integral part of every single before. The computing power Agriculture, Mobility, facet of our lives. Artificial of systems used for man’s first Finance, Logistics but Intelligence by definition is expedition to moon is at least 4 has redefined the way “the ability of a machine or times less powerful than a current computer system to copy human smart phone. we live and our daily intelligence processes, learn With all the factors favorable for activities. from experiences, adapt to new an exponential growth, Artificial information and perform human- Intelligence is expected to be the like activities.” primary technology in this decade We, as humans have evolved and to be a part of all the industries. years based on our ability As the industries embark upon to process our experiences, the journey to make Artificial information and have used Intelligence an integral part of their this to our advantage. With a operations, decision making and voluminous increase in data marketing, Government will be during the third industrial playing a pivotal role. Governments revolutions, the amount of are responsible for providing a digital data available with us is conducive ecosystem for research unprecedented. For AI enabled and innovation, companies, processes and machines, all startups, training organizations, this data is equivalent to what regulatory bodies for a technology experiences and information has like Artificial Intelligence to been to humans. prosper. AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 5 Vision Establish Telangana as a global hub for Artificial Intelligence and foster social innovation. Artificial Intelligence is The Government of Telangana As a first step towards one of the fastest-growing has been one of the frontrunners establishing Telangana as in adopting emerging a global hub for Artificial technologies, according technologies and it notices Intelligence, the government to the latest report by the central role that Artificial has set an ambitious target of Grand View Research, Intelligence plays in building ensuring that AI contributes Inc. the market size of a conducive ecosystem for $5 Billion to the state’s IT Artificial Intelligence is emerging technologies. Aligning exports by 2025. expected to reach ~USD with the vision to be a leader In the process of achieving 391 Billion by 2025. The in emerging technologies, the the above-set target, the Government of Telangana market is also anticipated Government of Telangana in collaboration with all the to expand at a CAGR of is also keen on ensuring that stakeholders like researchers, 46.2% from 2019 to 2025. all AI products and services industrialists, startups, will be deployed responsibly educational institutions, and ethically. Additionally, government departments, and the government understands other organizations has ideated that collaborative efforts initiatives that will catalyze across the ecosystem can be the adoption of Artificial helpful to solve some of the Intelligence in Telangana. most challenging and biggest In 2014, Telangana had social problems prevailing envisioned to double its IT using AI. To effectively exports in a span of 5 years solve these problems, the and has successfully achieved government envisions creating this target. Continuing to a collaborative ecosystem that deliver on our own high the researchers and experts expectations, Telangana could use for solving the most achieved 17.93% growth in IT/ critical problems. ITeS exports (2019-20) which was more than double the national average (8.09%; 2019- 20), establishing Telangana’s IT leadership in India. 6 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 AI Framework In an effort to position Telangana as a global hub These focus areas have been for AI and to achieve the above discussed objectives, identified based on the impact that can be created and the government consulted various stakeholders from applicability of Artificial industry, academia, civil society, startups and other Intelligence in the respective domain experts to come up with the state’s strategy fields. In addition, the state which is summarized in the following framework: will also focus on using AI to enhance citizen service delivery PILLARS across departments. For the planning and execution of all the initiatives and projects identified in this strategy framework, Government of Telangana has set up a body for Artificial Intelligence in collaboration with NASSCOM. T-AIM (Telangana’s AI Mission) will Data Exchange Skilling and Governance, Ethics assist the state in accelerating the Platform and HPAIC Education and Privacy process of powering Telangana to be a leading Global Artificial Intelligence Innovation hub. Towards these efforts, Government of Telangana will establish the AI-Innovestment Fund, a humanitarian investment fund dedicated to AI Research Enabling Adoption AI Innovation for Social Good. The And Innovation and Community Innovestment Fund fund will capture the opportunity Collaboration trinity of emerging AI economy, rise of impact investing and tech FOCUS AREAS investments. The objectives of the fund are as follows: • Raising funds for “AI for social good” startups which comply ESG1 criteria. Healthcare Agriculture Mobility Education Law • Financing projects with a Enforcement theme of “AI for social good”. 1: ESG Criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance): Standard criteria in measuring the sustainability and societal impact of an investment in a company or business. These criteria help to better determine the future financial performance of companies. ESG investing is estimated at over $20 trillion in AUM or around a quarter of all professionally managed assets around the world. (Forbes, 2018) AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 7 Key Pillars 8 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 01. Data Exchange Platform and HPAIC 02. Skilling and Education 03. Governance, Ethics and Privacy 04. Research and Innovation 05. Enabling Adoption and Community Collaboration 06. AI-Innovestment Fund AAII FFrraammeewwoorrkk 22002200 —— IITTEE&&CC DDeepptt..,, GGoovvtt.. ooff TTeellaannggaannaa.. —— 99 01. Data Exchange Platform and HPAIC Digital data to the fourth State’s Open Data Exchange Platform industrial revolution is what steam engine has Telangana formulated its Open datasets from government and Data Policy in 2016. Telangana’s implementing the data provider been to the first industrial Open Data Portal (www.data. certifications, a Data Exchange revolution, what electricity telangana.gov.in) currently hosts Platform will be operated by has been to the second 192 Datasets. These include government where all the AI industrial revolution and Global Transit Feed Specification partners can upload relevant and what digitization has been (GTFS) datasets from the useful datasets. An Open Data to the third industrial Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited Exchange Platform will increase revolution. The availability (HMRL) and Multi Modal Transit the cross collaboration across System (MMTS). Telangana State various stakeholders and will of data and right set of Road Transportation Corporation foster innovation in the space of infrastructure is even more (TSRTC) is digitizing the route Artificial Intelligence. For ease of critical in case of Artificial maps of Hyderabad city bus use, data visualization tools and Intelligence compared to network which shall be available data narratives will be enabled any other technology. To for public consumption very soon. for this data. APIs will also be support the companies, developed to provide access to Collaboration across departments, researchers and startups static and real time data. Access to companies, startups and research in AI, Government of data will be enabled for companies organizations is important that have presence in the state at Telangana has identified to increase the quality and a very nominal pay per use basis. the key supports required volume of data that can be used Companies that will contribute and detailed it. to train Artificial Intelligence datasets to this portal will get free algorithms. After building the core access for a limited period. Creating Public Sector Datasets Data availability is the primary of Telangana will collaborate prerequisite for Artificial with educational and research Intelligence. While certain institutes to identify such relevant domain specific data sets are datasets and will provide them in available across the world, but the state’s open data platform. Indian problems are different and Government aims to ensure that therefore India specific data sets the datasets of the identified owned by various government focus areas are created and are departments would be one of the available for public use in the most invaluable datasets for all next 2 years. the stakeholders. Government 10 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 AI Framework 2020 — Data Exchange Platform and HPAIC Collaboration Data Provider with Corporates to Certifications Create Datasets The AI of today is heavily As discussed above, data dependent on the collection, plays a vital role in developing usage, and processing of AI services. But, it is equally data. In the process of important to ensure that the collecting useful datasets, the datasets are safe, ethical and government will collaborate of high-quality. Hence, the with, Research institutions, state will initiate a Certification Industries, corporate bodies program for the data providers and Entrepreneurs for (Government, Research collating datasets that can institutions, Industry and be shared with a wider pool corporate bodies, Entrepreneurs) of innovators. The private which focuses on the theme sector will be encouraged of ethics for shared data and to collaborate with the would be as per the Data Privacy government to share the data. Law that is to be enacted by the government of India. Establishing a High-Performance AI Computing Facility Supercomputers, or more ITE&C Department has been specifically put, computers discussing with IIT Hyderabad, with accelerated hardware, JNTU Hyderabad, CDAC and are capable of increasing the other institutes, to offer High- speed of the system that governs Performance AI Computing Artificial Intelligence. With the (HPAIC) infrastructure as a continuous increase in the volume shared facility to boost local AI- of data, the requirement for innovation capacities of startups, High-Performance AI Computing academia, SMEs and for social facilities is constantly increasing. impact projects in Telangana. Access to High-Performance AI These would be made available Computing (HPAIC) infrastructure at reasonable costs, utilizing is becoming an entry barrier for computing resources specifically most of the startups. allotted for external use. AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 11 02. Skilling and Education Availability of Special programs are ideated, quality and efficient human and initiatives are planned to build the AI oriented talent pool resources is going to be in Telangana. Several initiatives one of the critical factors in listed in this pillar will be making a destination executed in close coordination a global hub for Artificial with Telangana Academy for Skill Intelligence. Due to and Knowledge (TASK). TASK the efforts over the last is a Government of Telangana five years, the state of initiative bridging the skills gap Telangana is positioned in students, and offering quality human resources to the industry. well to jump on to the wagon of Artificial Intelligence Government AI-focused upskilling targets to increase the AI workforce by at Data labelling, annotation, least 30,000 by the preparation, structuring and end of 2022. cleansing tasks account for more than 80% of the time involved in most AI and machine-learning projects. The global market for third-party Data Labeling solutions is $1.7B in 2019 growing to over $4.1B by 2024. By 2024, over 30% of current labeling tasks will be automated or performed by AI systems. However, the human in the loop is not going away any time soon for labeling and quality control. Government of Telangana will leverage the existing massive BPO workforce in Telangana and train them for data labelling roles to capture this opportunity. These programs will create a pipeline of job opportunities for tier-II cities. 12 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 AI Framework 2020 — Skilling and Education AI Training Centers in Tier-II Cities Hyderabad has co-located targeted for the 1st year of policy AI research hubs in premier are Warangal and Karimnagar. academic institutes and a vibrant State will partner with industry innovation eco-system offering experts: hands-on opportunities to learn • To offer hands-on AI training AI. The state envisions to ensure workshops for faculty. that the benefits of AI reach tier II cities of the state as well, which is • To offer periodic AI guest primarily possible by education. lecture series for college The two training centers that are students. AI Startup AI Talent Internship Program Alignment State will partner with incubators/ AI focused curriculum and faculty accelerators across the state to development programs would offer Telangana’s college students be developed based on inputs the opportunities to work with given by AI product companies, AI startups, and receive college to bridge the skill-gap in the job credits on successful completion market. These courses would of internship. The program would be delivered across the state in culminate with a Hackathon partnership with skilling partners, - to foster innovation, applied including Telangana Academy for learning and peer learning. Skill and Knowledge (TASK). AI Summer School Foundation of AI for All Micro-credentials State would partner with A set of courses which can be AI job market seeks candidates national/international premier offered for free would be posted with focused professional skill academic institutes to design on various state outlets, including sets. State would partner with an on-campus project-based TSAT channel. Moreover, the premier academic institutions to AI Summer School program state would organize webinars offer micro-credentials - low cost - especially for students from across Telangana universities, and short duration specialization Tier-II cities of Telangana. featuring pioneers of AI. courses - which would enhance Students and working employability of Telangana’s IT professionals will be provided talent pool. a subsidized enrollment to the summer schools based on merit. AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 13 03. Governance, Ethics and Privacy Availability and access Artificial Intelligence to accurate data is the Ethics Group cornerstone for any Artificial Intelligence The government must ensure related research. that artificial intelligence and And with Artificial machine learning algorithms are Intelligence becoming as ethical as they are intelligent. an integral component of A working committee will be day to day life, we must established to identify the key AI ensure that data which ethical concerns - Accountability, is used to run all the AI Bias, Transparency, Privacy, Security and Safety - and develop algorithms is trustworthy, sector specific guidelines for AI fair and ethical. use cases. The committee will Protecting the privacy of be led by academicians from citizens of Telangana is of top institutes and constitutes utmost importance to the of various representatives from government of Telangana. government, global companies, Government envisions startups and industry and research bodies like WEF, taking all the necessary NASSCOM and others. steps to ensure highest level of transparency. The working committee would be releasing a set of advisory guidelines, codes of practice, governance frameworks and will recommend various mechanisms to operationalize the recommendations. This would ensure ethical usage of data and bias-free decision-making algorithms to safeguard the privacy of citizens. Companies operating using the data published by government or affiliated authorities will be required to share a compliance report detailing the ethical and appropriate usage of data. 14 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 AI Framework 2020 — Governance, Ethics and Privacy Industry-consumer- Government AI Data ethics course researcher roundtable Procurement Guidelines to come up with As AI applications and its use guidelines for ethical In consultation with the AI increases, Data ethics becomes usage of data Ethics Group, the government a necessity for any organization will adopt recommended AI or state. A mandatory data procurement guidelines. These ethics course will be offered to Data is the major requirement in may include encouraging the employees of all IT companies AI for developing algorithms in use of explainable AI to ensure which are utilizing the datasets the system. Data governance is that AI decision-making (i.e. published and generated by crucial to ethical AI; organisations the decisions and/or insights government of Telangana. developing AI technologies need generated by AI) is as transparent to ensure they have strong data as possible. The government governance foundations or their may also explore mechanisms AI applications risk being fed to enable interpretability with inappropriate data. Hence of the algorithms internally the data collected needs to be and externally as a means of ethically procured and used. For establishing accountability and this the state will be developing contestability. guidelines for data integrity and retention policies. Moreover, data security measures applicable to the service including how data is Training the user government agencies collected using the service will be securely stored and accessed. The Operational or service staff as applicable to the deployment state government will be defining must have enough knowledge context, understand where its data governance guidelines, in or training on the solution to human review is required for alignment with the Personal Data understand how to use it. The decisions that produce legal Protection Bill, 2019. training must include, but not effects concerning individuals. These guidelines would be be limited to: the capabilities These guidelines would be further further detailed out in and limitations of the AI service detailed out in the AI ethics consultation with industry, , procedures to interpret and act guidelines to be released by the consumer and ethics experts. on the output of the service; and AI Ethics Group. AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 15 04. Research and Innovation Research acts as a core Several initiatives listed in this Global Applied pillar will be executed in close AI R&D Centres for any ecosystem to coordination with Research and in Telangana advance in Artificial Innovation Circle Hyderabad Intelligence. With (RICH). RICH is a Government the technology in a of Telangana initiative which Leveraging Hyderabad’s facilitates the process of taking co-located AI research constantly evolving research to market. hubs in premier academic stage, researchers institutes and a vibrant talent- play an even more led innovation eco-system, AI innovation cohorts the state aims to attract important role in renowned applied AI R&D establishing large Centres to Telangana. It is scale AI-based State will set up AI innovation observed globally, that close projects in the state. cohorts in partnership with collaboration with such centres the industry, in priority sectors help to develop a high-quality of Telangana - Pharma City talent pool and subsequently (Manufacturing), Defense and with the emergence of world- Aerospace, Agriculture and class AI startups. Allied sectors, Energy & Green Technology sector, Automotive & Automobiles, Engineering Global Academic and Capital Goods, Precision Collaboration engineering and Textiles & Apparels. Each cohort will be mentored by industry-specific The state will enter into researchers, industrialists, partnerships with globally customers, data scientists and reputed universities/ other successful startups. research centers to facilitate Special focus would be on cross learning - via foreign AI innovation in Advanced exchange programs for Manufacturing – Digital Twin, faculty and research students. Smart Asset, Smart Procurement, Government of Telangana Smart Containers, Predictive will also rope in premier Maintenance and Product educational institutions in Quality-as-a-Service. the state for the same 16 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 AI Framework 2020 — Research and Innovation Active Innovation Patenting Guidelines for Ecosystem AI-based Innovations State has partnered with 12 AI It is necessary to support the ecosystem enablers to compile startups/SMEs/innovators a calendar for 2020: Year of AI which come out with new with 74 events and counting. The Intellectual Property. Many of state will also enable an active the innovators don’t protect their AI innovation ecosystem with a own intellectual property because series of Hackathons, National of lack of awareness and process Challenges, Boot Camps and expertise. The government will Accelerators. engage experts from techno-legal domain to educate innovators about the importance and procedure of IPR filing. R&D fellowship Government will enter a triple Government-priority helix partnership model - with Applied Research Academia and Corporates - to design research fellowships for graduate and Postdoctoral Government will offer research studies. Each year, 10 fellowships grants to academicians working would be sponsored by the in applied AI for focus areas of government in partnership with the state. the industry. AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 17 05. Enabling Adoption and Community Collaboration In a technology like Artificial Intelligence which is SME platform still in an evolution phase, startups play an important role in identifying all the potential use cases and There are around 23 lakh applications of the technology. Encouraging the MSMEs in Telangana, who startups and larger corporates to innovate and have played a significant role in creating a conducive environment for the same is terms of creating employment one of the key responsibilities of governments. opportunities along with innovation. Being more GovTech Catalyst and GovTech projects flexible they can cater to very specific needs and adapt to the technological changes faster. There is a need to fill the gap thorough research on a problem Proven AI products developed by between private sector innovators from the list of problems which a startup that are applicable to a and public sector organizations to the government is trying to solve wider pool of SMEs will be made solve some of the government’s and come up with the scope of the available in common market hardest problems as they have the project as well as the Minimum space. SMEs can take advantage required capability and resources to Viable Product(MVP). This can be of this to improve and accelerate do so .To bridge this gap, government divided into a few phases wherein will introduce Govtech catalyst in initially the public sector will their businesses. which a list of challenges or citizen propose complex problems that a services will be chosen by a cross- few suppliers are funded to work on government board, and then they for pre-specified months. If results AI recognition will be turned into competitions, are promising, Government would newsletter with which suppliers would bid to be procuring the solution from the companies doing well solve. Through this mentorship startup and be the first customer will be given by the public sector of the solution. Government will organizations to take measured risks look forward to run around 4 such wherein an organization would do programs each year. Many companies and Start-ups are working for the enhancement of AI in the state. In the process Corporate Startup Matchmaking of recognizing companies doing well in AI activities, the State government will initiate an AI A program will be designed in bodies. In order to facilitate Newsletter. AI Newsletter will collaboration with state-run the matchmaking a corporate be published on a quarterly basis incubators to establish a channel roundtable will be organized by the and will capture the information between the corporates and startups government in coordination with the concerning the activities of a for solving AI related challenges. state-run incubators on a quarterly business or an organization, The program envisions to reduce basis where corporates can interact which is sent to its members, and remove all the potential barriers with startups and share few of the that a corporates face while engaging major challenges in their respective customers, or subscribers. with startups. A comprehensive list sectors. Each roundtable will be of AI based startups and focused on discussion regarding their areas of expertise will be ways AI based solutions can be shared with corporates and industry incorporated in the particular sector. 18 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 06. AI-Innovestment Fund Establishing, raising, and managing a humanitarian Desired Social investment fund dedicated to AI Innovation for Social Impact Outcomes Impact in Telangana’s priority sectors – Agriculture, Healthcare, Education, Mobility and Law Enforcement. The initiative aims to create a pipeline of investable The fund will strive to achieve opportunities and challenge investors to rethink their role the following qualitative in driving social impact for the greater good. sectoral goals using AI products and services: Agriculture: Improving the income-generating capabilities of local farmers, The Raising funds for Financing thereby enhancing their “AI for social good” projects with a objectives families’ and communities’ startups which theme of “AI for of the fund quality of life, while also comply ESG2 criteria. social good”. increasing the state’s domestic production, food security and self-sustainability. Healthcare: Transforming Opportunity Trinity the healthcare industry while promoting healthy lives and Impact Investing, Tech Investing and AI Economy ensuring access to affordable quality care for all. Education: Improving access Rise of to high-quality primary Impact Investing Deliver High education and industry- oriented skilling at affordable Social Impact prices. Mobility: Accelerating Healthy Return the transition to safer, AIF on Investment cleaner, and more inclusive Booming Emerging transportation systems, Tech AI optimizing the delivery of Investments Economy goods, and ensuring access to Develop Local mobility for everyone AI Innovation Ecosystem Law and Order: Provide access to justice for all and AI Innovestment Fund build effective, efficient, accountable, and inclusive 2: ESG Criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance): Standard criteria in measuring the sustainability enforcement systems at all and societal impact of an investment in a company or business. These criteria help to better determine levels. the future financial performance of companies. ESG investing is estimated at over $20 trillion in AUM or around a quarter of all professionally managed assets around the world. (Forbes, 2018) AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 19 Incentives 01. Data and Technology attracting new AI startups to the based on certain selection state is a key priority of the AI criteria closely developed with policy. Specific initiatives under the industry. Selected startups Access to Public Data: The this will include: will be mentored by state’s AI state of Telangana in partnership industry partners. AI Startups: with academia and industry will • To better support innovation enhance its data portal for making The key priority areas for Startups in this technology, further available anonymized public data. is funding, acceleration, go to incentives in the areas of Patent For ease of use, data visualization market and data / technology Filing and Quality Certification tools and data narratives will be infrastructure. To attract AI will be made available: enabled for this data. APIs will startups in the state, the following also be developed to provide maybe considered: • Assistance in Patent Filing access to static and real time data. – Reimbursement of 50% • 100% reimbursement of State Access to data will be enabled for of the cost of filing patents, Goods and Services Tax (SGST) companies that have presence in subject to a maximum of INR for a period of three years to the state at a very nominal pay 5 Lakhs. start-ups with revenues less per use basis. Companies that will than INR 5 Crores. • Costs for Quality contribute datasets to this portal Certifications – 50% subsidy • 75% reimbursement for travel will get free access for a limited on the expenses incurred for and ticket costs for selected AI period. quality certification limited conferences across the globe AI MakerPark will be set up to a maximum of INR 5 subject to a maximum of INR by the state to bring together Lakhs 2 Lakhs per year per start-up in the AI innovators wherein apart the first 2 years of operation for • 25% reimbursement on from the physical infrastructure, selected start-ups. internet charges up to a companies will have access maximum of INR 2.5 Lakhs per • R&D grant up to 10% of the to a suite of AI tools, HPAIC year for the first 3 years R&D expenses or up to 2% of infrastructure, cloud credits the annual turnover whichever International MNCs setting up necessary for research and further is lesser to the start-ups AI Centers: development in AI. innovating in AI technology in The state would focus on Telangana attracting international MNCs 02. Innovation and • One-time start-up grant of to set up centers in the state Entrepreneurship upto INR 10 Lakhs, wherever and would provide following applicable, will be provided to a incentives: maximum of 10 AI start-ups per • 25% subsidy on lease rentals up Accelerating the existing AI year for the next three years. to INR 5,00,000 per annum for startups in the state as well as These start-ups will be selected 20 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 the first 3 years of operations. Incentives to Innovation • International collaborations: entities: Enable local universities • 50% subsidy on the exhibition through grants to build rentals for the SMEs (firms • Any organization conducting partnerships and exchange operating out of Telangana) a AI related conference/event programs with international participating in national or can approach the Government universities to get international exhibitions limited to seek sponsorship support. the best courseware, visiting to 9 Sq. mts of space. The Government will offer a faculty and international sponsorship of INR 1-25 Lakhs • A tailor-made incentive package internship opportunities. based on the scale, quality, and will be provided for mega uniqueness of the event AI projects or marquee AI 04. Research and companies. • All AI related communities in Development Hyderabad will be provided • Land will be allotted at venues for meetups, gatherings, subsidized rates to AI and small-scale events at no or companies by Telangana subsidized cost • AI Fellowships: The state will State Industrial Infrastructure announce AI Fellowships for Corporation Limited, the upto 5 students from India guidelines specified for regular 03. Talent and Skills and globally, to work on high- ICT companies in terms of end use cases in partnership annual revenue, investment with local research / academic promises, employment creation Access to high quality talent is organizations. The fellows will promises will be partially a key imperative for companies be entitled to a grant relaxed for AI firms. to set up operations in any area. of USD 10,000 for 1 year. Incentives that the state can look • For all the research projects • Global and Indian companies at: sponsored by companies in that set up high end AI R&D technical universities, an equal • AI scholarships: Students labs will be eligible for grants, amount of investment will be from the state who complete zero duty on hardware and made by the govt. for up to INR advanced AI curricula with software imports, access to 5 Lakhs per year for next three exceptional performance, R&D credits years. as defined by the state The state government would be government, may be • Access to skilled talent through designing even more attractive eligible for a scholarship up to university partnerships; incentive packages in collaboration Rs 10,000 per student. Similar innovative program of with DST(Department of Science incentives would be available apprenticeship, enable global and Technology) and MeitY for faculty to upgrade their talent to work in the state with (Ministry of Electronics and skills. access to expat visas. Information Technology) . AI Framework 2020 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — 21 Non-Financial Incentives By virtue of working in • Firms are exempt from the (Regulation and Abolition) the technology, the AI purview of The Pollution Act 1970 Control Act, except in respect product firms, considered • The Payment of Wages Act of IT Parks/IT SEZ campuses as IT units below ICT 1936 with built up areas more than industry incentives, are 20,000 sq. mt. • The Minimum Wages Act automatically applicable 1948 • Firms are exempt from to AI firms operating out inspections under Acts and • The Employee Exchanges of Telangana. the Rules framed thereunder, (Compulsory Notification of barring inspections arising out Vacancies) Act 1959 of complaints. The firms are • General permission will permitted to self-certificates in be provided for three shift the prescribed formats. operations with women • The factories Act 1948 working in the night as these firms provide services to global • The Maternity Benefit Act customers 1961 • Firms services will be declared • The Telangana Shops and as essential services under Establishment Act 1988 Telangana State Essential • The Contract Labour Act Services Maintenance Act 22 — ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. — AI Framework 2020 Jayesh Ranjan, IAS Principal Secretary to Government Information Technology, Electronics & Communications Department Government of Telangana 5th Floor, Burgula Rama Krishna Rao Bhavan, NH 44, Hill Fort, Adarsh Nagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500063 Ph. +91 40 2345 6401 F: +91 40 2345 0103 secy_itc@telangana.gov.in http://it.telangana.gov.in ITE&C Dept., Govt. of Telangana. uppercut.agency | 9959 530 297