GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT eProcurement - Development of new version of eProcurement system Constituting a committee with stakeholders – orders issued. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (e-Procurement wing) G.O.RT.No. 25. Dated: 30.08.2014 Read the following:- Ref:- 1. G.O.Ms. No. 6, ITE&C (eProcurement) Dept. dt. 25.2.2014 2. G.O.Rt. No. 116, ITE&C (eProc.) Dept, GoAP. dt. 30.7.2014. ORDER:- Government have constituted a committee to co-ordinate and guide the project “Development of new version of eProcurement & e-Auction system” vide reference 1st cited. 2. In view of the bifurcation of two States, ITE&C Department felt the need to have a separate committee for Telangana State. The committee is reconstituted with the following composition:- 1. The Secretary, ITE&C Dept, Telangana 2. The M.D.,Telangana State Technological Services 3. The Engineer-in-Chief, Roads & Buildings Dept.,Telangana 4. The Chief Engineer, I&CAD(Medium) Department, Telangana 5. The Joint Secy.(eGov) ITE&C Dept., Telangana 6. The Divisional Engineer, Telangana State GENCO 7. The Head, SeMT, ITE&C Dept., Telangana The Committee would be responsible for - Overall supervision of the project - Coordination among respective departments and to observe the procurement needs are fulfilled. - Guidance for the development of new version of eprocurement and also handling the issues that arises in the course of development of the project. - To study and examine the RFP and see that the Government of Telangana requirements are fulfilled. - To ensure that the functionalities and procurement requirements of the Government of Telangana procurement process are achieved. (Cont..2) //2// 3. The Committee shall meet once in fortnight to review the progress and guide the process of development of eProcurement applications according to the Government of Telangana requirements. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) HARPREET SINGH SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To All the Members of the Committee All Departments Concerned. Copy to: PS to Secretary to Govt., ITE&C Department. M/s Cambridge Technology Enterprises Limited. SF/SC. //FORWARDED BY ORDER // SECTION OFFICER