GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT IT,E&C Department – Incorporation of new entity as “Telangana State Technology Services Limited” in Telangana State – Constitution of Board of Directors, Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association and Fixing up Authorised and Paid-up Capital - Orders - Issued. _____________________________________________________________________ INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATIONS (ADMIN) DEPARTMENT G.O.MS.No. 14 Dated: 16/09/2015. Read the following: 1 Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, No. 6 of 2014. 2 M.D. APTS Ltd.Lr.No.APTS/TS/CA/ITE&C/2014, Dt: 16.8.2014. 3 Government Lr.No.490/ITE&C/Admin/2014, dated: 1.5.2015 4 M.D.APTS Ltd. Lr.No.APTS/TS/CA/01/2015, Dt:25.5.2015. 5 Council Resolution No.173/2015, Dated:03.09.2015. *** O R D E R:: In the reference 2nd read above, the Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Technology Services Limited (Telangana Unit) has informed that in view of the bifurcation of the combined State of Andhra Pradesh into two successor States of Telangana and Residuary Andhra Pradesh under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, the existing Andhra Pradesh State Technology Services Limited, which is listed in Schedule IX Institutions has to demerge the operations pertaining to the Telangana State into a separate Company. To facilitate demerger a new company for the Telangana State has to be incorporated so as to take care of the activities of the Company in the Telangana State, on the formal demerger of the A.P. Technology Services Limited. 2. After careful examination of the matter, the Government is here by accord permission for Incorporation of new entity as “Telangana State Technology Services Limited” in Telangana State (TSTS Ltd.), Constitution of Board of Directors, Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association and Fixing up Authorised capital and Paid-up Capital. 3. Accordingly, the Government is hereby nominated the following as Board of Directors of TSTS Ltd. 1. Secretary to Government, ITE & C Department -- Chairman 2. Secretary, I & C (MSME) Department -- Director 3. Secretary, P.E.Department -- Director 4. Secretary, Finance Department -- Director 5. Commissioner, School Education -- Director 6. Managing Director, TSTS Limited -- Director 4. The Government is hereby nominated the Principal Secretary to Government, Planning Department as Officer other than the Board of Directors to sign the documents on behalf of Governor of Telangana State and to represent the Governor in all the meetings of the Company. 5. The Authorised Capital of TSTS Ltd. is here by fixed as Rs.15,00,000/- divided into 15,000 equity shares of Rs.100/- each. P.T.O. -2- 6. The Government is hereby fixed the Paid up Capital of TSTS Ltd. as Rs.5,00,000/- divided into 5,000 equity shares @ Rs.100/- each and out of 5,000 shares 4,994 equity shares @ Rs.100/- each allotted in the name of Governor of Telangana State and One Share each to the above Board of Directors of TSTS Ltd.. 7. The Government will issue necessary orders for release of paid up capital of Rs.5,00,000/- to TSTS Ltd. and permission to incur necessary expenditure of Rs.1.50 lakhs towards Registration Fee and Professional Charges for incorporation of the Company from the funds of APTS subject to reimbursement from the Telangana Government. 8. The Managing Director I/c, Telangana State Technology Services Limited, Hyderabad shall take necessary action accordingly and submit compliance to the Government from time to time. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA STATE) JAYESH RANJAN SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT To, The Managing Director I/c, Telangana State Technology Services Limited., Hyderabad, Telangana State. All Board of Directors of TSTS Ltd., Hyderabad. The Principal Secretary to Government, Planning Department, Telangana Secretariat. Copy to: The Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Telangana State. The P.S. to the Chief Secretary to Government, Secretariat, Telangana State. The P.S. to the Minister for PR & IT, Telangana State, Hyderabad. The Managing Director, Telangana State Technology Services Limited., Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh State for information. All Wing Officers of ITE&C Department, Secretariat, Telangana State. The P.A. to Secretary to Government, ITE&C Dept. for information. // FORWARDED BY ORDER // SECTION OFFICER