NUMBER OF PROGRAMS UNDERTAKEN IN HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS (HEIs) TO SUPPORT STUDENT ENTREPRENEURS GGUUIIDDEELLIINNEE DDOOCCUUMMEENNTT The Government of Telangana and Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in Telangana have conducted 24 programs to support student entrepreneurs and foster innovation and entrepreneurship among students in the State. The 24 programs were undertaken by 5 institutions in the state i.e., Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hub (J-Hub), T-Hub, WE- Hub, Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge (TASK) and Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC). The following table shows the breakdown of the programs conducted by each institute. Name of Organization Number of Programs Jawaharlal Nehru Technological 4 University (J-Hub) T- Hub 14 WE-Hub 1 Telangana Academy for Skills and 2 Knowledge (TASK) Telangana State Innovation Cell 3 Total 24 1 J-HUB 3 -Day Workshop on AI and Machine Learning Guideline document 2 JNTUH University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, the First Technological University of India, was established on 2nd October 1972 in Andhra Pradesh with headquarters located in a historical city Hyderabad. The University is one of the premier Universities in India accredited by NAAC with “A” Grade. After successful and proven levels of appreciated existence and stature spanning over 36 years, JNTU has been divided into four different universities by Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, through Act No.30, Dt. 24th September, 2008. One of the constituent colleges of the University “JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad” is regarded as a pioneer in shaping the excellence of some of the leading organizations of the industry, by churning out the finest professionals with a resolve to scale greater heights in the technological scenario, every year. Another constituent college of JNTUH is located at Jagityal and 11 other academic units at Hyderabad campus. About Workshop: 3- Day workshop on AI and Machine Learning When: 9/1/2020 to 11/1/2020 Venue: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Campus, Hyderabad Registration: https://forms.gle/h4gLeUehwCrYqheWA Brief Overview: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University through its incubation wing J-Hub created in association with Government of Telangana has focused on enriching and seeding the idea of entrepreneurship within the students. In its objective of budding entrepreneurship among students, J-Hub has scheduled a 3- Day workshop on AI and Machine Learning. Learning AI and ML would help the students to think creatively, reason with and have a solution-oriented mindset which is important in their journey towards entrepreneurship and innovative thinking. 3 Prerequisites: • Prior Knowledge of Machine Learning or Deep Learning is not required • Basic Understanding of Statistics and Linear Algebra is useful to have •Prior knowledge of Programming Fundamentals, exposure to Programming in MATLAB will be an added advantage Who should attend? ● Engineering students Agenda: Day 1: 1. Introduction to Machine Learning and Neural Networks 2. Data I/O and Basic Statistics / Curve Fitting 3. Exploratory Data Analysis 4. Introduction to AI / ML Terminology 5. Machine Learning using MATLAB – Classification and Regression 6. Supervised and Unsupervised Models, Shallow Neural Networks 4 Day 2: Introduction to Deep Learning 1. Introduction to Deep Learning Terminology 2. Creating and training a Deep Neural Network 3. Modifying Hyper parameters and Network Tuning 4. Transfer Learning 5. Deep Learning for Images and Signals Day 3: 1. AI and Watson by Dr. Mani 2. PowerAI vision demo 3. Deepfake Experiences 4. Q & A, Way forward 5. Solution demonstrations Key Expected Outcomes: After attending this workshop, attendees should be able to: 1. Know what AI, Machine Learning, Data Science, and Deep Learning mean and how they are related to each other. 2. Understand and perform Machine Learning tasks using MATLAB. 3. Be exposed to Deep Learning, especially in image and signal analysis. 4. Apply Machine Learning / Deep Learning concepts using MathWorks MATLAB / Simulink to solve problems in different domains. 5 Registration Fee: There is no Registration Fee Limited seats: Registration is on a first come first serve basis. Selected participants will be informed through mail Travel/Accommodation: Participants are required to make their own arrangements for travel, local conveyance and accommodation. 6 J-Hub Central Hackathon League Guideline Document 7 JNTUH University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, the First Technological University of India, was established on 2nd October 1972 in Andhra Pradesh with headquarters located in a historical city Hyderabad. The University is one of the premier Universities in India accredited by NAAC with “A” Grade. After successful and proven levels of appreciated existence and stature spanning over 36 years, JNTU has been divided into four different universities by Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, through Act No.30, Dt. 24th September, 2008. One of the constituent colleges of the University “JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad” is regarded as a pioneer in shaping the excellence of some of the leading organizations of the industry, by churning out the finest professionals with a resolve to scale greater heights in the technological scenario, every year. Another constituent college of JNTUH is located at Jagityal and 11 other academic units at Hyderabad campus. About Central Hackathon League Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University through its incubation wing J-Hub created in association with Government of Telangana has focused on enriching and seeding the idea of entrepreneurship within the students. In its objective of budding entrepreneurship among students and inspiring them with innovative thinking, they have designed and come up with the Central Hackathon League. The Central Hackathon League is exclusively for students to inspire, recognize and reward innovative ideas. Packed with a series of 15 Hackathons at institutions with J-Hub/J Labs, the league is themed ‘Sustainable Development Goals’. The objective of the hackathon is to nurture and recognize the spirit of innovation and tech entrepreneurship for engineering students. The J-Hub Hackathon League will cultivate a community of passionate engineering graduates, industry mentors and entrepreneurs who play a key role in building the innovation ecosystem. 8 Eligibility: It is open for all engineering students with innovative ideas. Recognition & Rewards: 1. All participants of the Hackathon receive a participation certificate and a chance to upload their profile on the J-Hub portal for access to Industry for providing Internship opportunities. 2. Participants shall also have access to Skill development and other Intervention programs and workshops organized by J-Hub 3. Top 3 teams of each of the Hackathon League events shall receive a Certificate of Merit from J-Hub. 4. Entry to the Central Hackathon at J-Hub -One-on-One mentoring support from Industry Mentors 5.Entry to EXCITE-2019 6-Week Summer Product Engineering workshop at JHUB 6. Access to Labs at J-Hub 7. Chance to Compete for the place in UNIVERSITY TOP 20 INNOVATORS LIST. When: 13/03/2020 Venue: Virtual event hosted by 15 institutions Registration: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfJYWUhmc_SddIabt5lkORVExvCbncIsdwTc4Rcc noKZLBn8w/closedform 9 J-HUB 2 -Day Workshop on product development using IoT Guideline document 10 JNTUH University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, the First Technological University of India, was established on 2nd October 1972 in Andhra Pradesh with headquarters located in a historical city Hyderabad. The University is one of the premier Universities in India accredited by NAAC with “A” Grade. After successful and proven levels of appreciated existence and stature spanning over 36 years, JNTU has been divided into four different universities by Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, through Act No.30, Dt. 24th September, 2008. One of the constituent colleges of the University “JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad” is regarded as a pioneer in shaping the excellence of some of the leading organizations of the industry, by churning out the finest professionals with a resolve to scale greater heights in the technological scenario, every year. Another constituent college of JNTUH is located at Jagityal and 11 other academic units at Hyderabad campus. About Workshop: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University through its incubation wing J-Hub created in association with Government of Telangana has focused on enriching and seeding the idea of entrepreneurship within the students. In its objective of budding entrepreneurship among students and educating them on emerging technologies, they have designed a 2- Day workshop on product development using IoT. 11 Agenda: Day 1: Interactive presentations and group exercises that give your team a hands-on understanding of the IoT Decision Framework. Understanding of all the elements involved in creating a solid IoT product strategy, using examples from a variety of products and industries. Day 2: Apply day 1 learnings to your own product. We will work in teams to develop a first pass of your IoT product strategy. Workshop Benefits: ● Learn all the components and considerations involved in building IoT products ● Get hands-on experience with the IoT Decision Framework ● Develop a strong, cohesive strategy for a current or potential IoT product at your company ● Improve communication and collaboration across disciplines thanks to a shared understanding of what it takes to build an IoT product 12 When: 19/12/2019 to 20/12/2019 Venue: JNTU Campus, Hyderabad Registration: https://forms.gle/XtWcJNWtEcmWb5gEA Registration Fee: There is no Registration Fee Limited seats: Registration is on a first come first serve basis. Selected participants will be informed through mail Travel/Accommodation: Participants are required to make their own arrangements for travel, local conveyance and accommodation. 13 J-HUB RURATHON Guideline document 14 JNTUH University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, the First Technological University of India, was established on 2nd October 1972 in Andhra Pradesh with headquarters located in a historical city Hyderabad. The University is one of the premier Universities in India accredited by NAAC with “A” Grade. After successful and proven levels of appreciated existence and stature spanning over 36 years, JNTU has been divided into four different universities by Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, through Act No.30, Dt. 24th September, 2008. One of the constituent colleges of the University “JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad” is regarded as a pioneer in shaping the excellence of some of the leading organizations of the industry, by churning out the finest professionals with a resolve to scale greater heights in the technological scenario, every year. Another constituent college of JNTUH is located at Jagityal and 11 other academic units at Hyderabad campus. About Rurathon 2020: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University through its incubation wing J-Hub created in association with Government of Telangana has focused on enriching and seeding the idea of entrepreneurship within the students. In its objective of budding entrepreneurship among students and inspiring them with innovative thinking, they have designed and come up with the Hackathon- RURATHON 2020. A 36-hour national level Hackathon- RURATHON 2020 was organized at Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology under J-Hub. The spontaneity, intelligence and endurance of the participants will be tested at this 2-day event. 15 Participants are expected to develop a prototype within 36-hours. Many innovative solutions were developed in Hackathon. Theme: The theme for this Hackathon is “India’s Rural Development”. Objectives: ● To provide a platform for Students/Researchers/Innovators/Farmers to come up with innovative solutions for key challenges for Rural Development in India ● To identify and nurture innovations in the domains of Rural development and allied sector. ● To organize competition events for students on viable solutions to the societal problems predominantly in the development of rural India ● To identify innovations having applications in the rural sector which can provide value proposition addressing the key challenges. Challenge guidelines: • The solution must be focused on the given problem statements only and no deviation is entitled. • Time duration is 36 hrs to hack the problem. • Any Web/Mobile platform or physical space can be used to suggest a solution. • The proposed solutions must have a Prototype before the jury. • Maximum team carrying of 4 members. Registration Link: https://forms.gle/hLyBbMKdCYycMGCz6 Rewards: First prize - Rs. 10,000 Second Prize - Rs. 7000 16 Third Prize - Rs. 5000 i4TS Entrepreneurship Development Program Guideline document 17 About TASK Telangana Academy for Skill & Knowledge (TASK), is a non-profit organization, established under the control of ITE&C Department to bring synergy between Government, Academia and Industry with an objective to enhance the employability quotient of youth in the state and to provide quality human resources and services to the industry. The key focus at Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge is to enhance the employability quotient of young graduates in our state and enable them to choose multiple avenues as they graduate. TASK enables a collaboration platform between Government, Academia and Industry to enhance skilling, research and entrepreneurship among youth in Telangana. About i4TS i4TS (Innovation for Telangana State) was launched as a collaborative initiative between Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) and Head Held High Foundation, with the aim to catalyze social innovation and entrepreneurship in the youth of Telangana state. The program focus was on developing entrepreneurial mindset and encouraging youth of Telangana to take up rural entrepreneurship and social innovation in five thematic areas, viz., Health, Agriculture, Education, Access and Green Energy, in line with the SDGs established by the United Nations. 18 The program involves the following stages: Stage 1: 25-hour Entrepreneurship Mindset Development Program, starting on December 2nd (2.5 hrs live session on all the 5 Wednesdays in December and 10 hours of home assignments) for 3000 to 5000 youth. Stage 2: Ideathon, mentoring by experts and Demo Day to present start-up ideas. Stage 3: 3-months Entrepreneurship Development Program for the best 300 ideas. Stage 4: Best 100 ideas to be provided Incubation support with the best incubators in the state Key outcomes: ● Developing insights and attitude for entrepreneurship and readiness to start the entrepreneurial journey in young people ● Creation of an ecosystem for young entrepreneurs that allows them to think, innovate and find unique solutions to problems ● Mentoring by industry experts on ideas across SDGs to enable creation of well-rounded solutions ● Incubation and partnership opportunities to test out ideas and build strong, scalable models ● Focus Area: Social Innovation and Rural Entrepreneurship 19 When: Conference on 12th December 2020 with panel discussions, fireside talks and more. Eligibility: All students between 18 and 25 years of age Registration form: https://forms.gle/XmsLdatGWgYgYe5GA Last time and date for registration: 2.00 PM, 30th November 2020 20 INNOVISION Project Development Programme Guideline document 21 About TASK Telangana Academy for Skill & Knowledge (TASK), is a non-profit organization, established under the control of TE&C Department to bring synergy between Government, Academia and Industry with an objective to enhance the employability quotient of youth in the state and to provide quality human resources and services to the industry. The key focus at Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge is to enhance the employability quotient of young graduates in our state and enable them to choose multiple avenues as they graduate. TASK enables a collaboration platform between Government, Academia and Industry to enhance skilling, research and entrepreneurship among youth in Telangana. About Innovision TASK CISCO ASC is organizing a Student Program for CISCO NetAcad Partner Colleges. As we all know that, for students it’s Project Time, there are exciting plans to improve our relationship with the colleges and students as part of CISCO NetAcad initiative. This project learning time will be an exciting transition, which will help NetAcad Students to improve their technical competency level to better, faster and more simply by making them enrolled in this event. 22 TARGET AUDIENCE This is open to any NetAcad Student, one who wants to design, develop and implement the learning during, and after its accomplishment. Team sizes of 3 or 4 are suggested, but individuals are also strongly encouraged. PREREQUISITE The only prerequisite for attending Project Development Project course is to provide proof of completion of Independent or Team Study and being a NetAcad Student. Project Categories: · Project on IoT/IoE · Project on Cybersecurity · Project on Networking · Project on Software Defined Networks · Project on Network Security · Project on Internet and Routing Protocols · Project based on Real Time Networking · Project on Wired Networking · Project on Wireless Networking 23 Key outcomes: ● New/Upgraded product ● New/Upgraded system ● Feasibility analysis ● New/Upscaled process ● Service (Including software) EVENT Schedule Round 1: Student to submit the Project Abstract Last Date of Submission with Form: 05th February 2020 Round 2: February 2020 (dates will be informed after Round 1) Round 3: March 2020 (dates will be informed after Round 2) Final Demo / Result: 6th April 2020 (dates will be informed after Round 3) To register: https://smartinternz.com/challenge/15 24 T-Tribe Launchpad Anurag University Guideline document 25 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Anurag University to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option 26 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 27 Curriculum: 28 29 T-Tribe Launchpad CVR College of Engineering Guideline document 30 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with CVR College of Engineering to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-Hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option 31 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 32 Curriculum: 33 34 T-Tribe Launchpad KL University Guideline document 35 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with KL University to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 36 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 37 Curriculum: 38 39 T-Tribe Launchpad Malla Reddy College of Engineering and Technology Guideline document 40 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Malla Reddy College of Engineering and Technology to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 41 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 42 Curriculum: 43 44 T-Tribe Launchpad Maturi Venkata Subba Rao Engineering College Guideline document 45 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Maturi Venkata Subbarao Engineering College to provide a year- long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 46 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 47 Curriculum: 48 49 T-Tribe Launchpad Marri Laxman Reddy Institute of Technology Guideline document 50 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Marri Laxman Reddy Institute of Technology to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 51 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 52 Curriculum: 53 54 T-Tribe Launchpad Nalla Malla Reddy Engineering College Guideline document 55 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Nalla Malla Reddy Engineering College to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 56 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 57 Curriculum: 58 59 T-Tribe Launchpad Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology Guideline document 60 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology to provide a year- long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 61 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 62 Curriculum: 63 64 T-Tribe Launchpad Sphoorthy Engineering College Guideline document 65 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Sphoorthy Engineering College to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 66 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 67 Curriculum: 68 69 T-Tribe Launchpad Sreyas Institute of Engineering and Technology Guideline document 70 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Sreyas Institute of Engineering and Technology to provide a year- long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 71 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, start-ups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 72 Curriculum: 73 74 T-Tribe Launchpad Vardhaman College of Engineering Guideline document 75 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Vardhaman College of Engineering to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 76 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, start-ups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 77 Curriculum: 78 79 T-Tribe Launchpad Vasavi College of Engineering Guideline document 80 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Vasavi College of Engineering to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 81 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 82 Curriculum: 83 84 T-Tribe Launchpad Vignana Bharathi Institute of Technology Guideline document 85 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with Vignana Bharathi Institute of Technology to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 86 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 87 Curriculum: 88 89 T-Tribe Launchpad VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology Guideline document 90 About T-Tribe: T-Tribe is a unique initiative launched by T-Hub (India’s largest incubation center and startup acceleration center) to nurture India’s next generation of entrepreneurs. The goal is to support entrepreneurs at every step of their journey through our expertly and exclusively curated programs. By associating with the leading colleges in the country, T-Tribe aims to deliver entrepreneurial content to the students and help them consider entrepreneurship as a career. The Launchpad Program is a perfect amalgamation of theoretical and practical learning that not only enlightens students on the scope of entrepreneurship but also gives them a direction to achieve success in the field. T-Hub has collaborated with VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology to provide a year-long program on entrepreneurship, design thinking and financial literacy. Why should you choose the Launchpad Program for your students? The future is looking at more job creators than job seekers. We want the next generation of the country to be able to become successful entrepreneurs by implementing their revolutionary ideas. And their success journey starts with the Launchpad Program. The following are the key outcomes of the program: ● Certification from T-hub ● Provide a structured approach to entrepreneurship ● Provide an opportunity for student entrepreneurs to assess their ideas and consider entrepreneurship as a career option. 91 ● Help colleges to have access to founders, startups, corporates, and mentors for students that would help them to move towards business viability ● Hone entrepreneurial skill sets. Students Selection Process: For this program we onboard 25-50 students from each college for one batch, for shortlisting we conduct psychometric tests based on entrepreneurship and general topics based on the scores received by the students we select top 25-50 students and onboard them to this program. Sample psychometric test link: https://zfrmz.com/YDAXcUtH7MhwPhY7alpE How do we Conduct the Sessions? All the sessions in this program will be organized on the LMS platform where we provide individual login credentials to the students and faculty as well through which they can view their weekly schedule and all the recorded sessions will be uploaded on LMS itself where the student can access for his further understanding. Registration: https://t-hub.co/t-tribe-old- 2/launchpad/?utm_source=Website&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=Rolling&utm_c ontent=T-tribe-main-page#launchpadform 92 Curriculum: 93 94 I - INNOVATE Guideline document 95 About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1)To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2)To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3)To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About I-Innovate I-Innovate, India's first 1 million Seconds Non - Stop Online Hackathon ever conducted by Publish sutra supported by Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) and Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA). Program Details: Phase - I This is the first and foremost phase, during this phase we will host the online webinars to all the innovators who got registered with us. During these webinars we will interact with each and every innovator to understand: 1) What kind of problems they have been facing so far / what are the problems they are facing now? 2) Why have you addressed this problem? 3) Who are the people primarily affected with such problems? 4) How are you going to solve the problem? 96 Phase - II The primary purpose of the design thinking is to improve the way they do solving problems, and also design thinking enables the person to organize the thoughts properly. Design Thinking and mentoring and guidance will be provided during the development stage of the Idea. Because that’s where the effective thought process has to be indulged. During this design thinking workshops will we cover the following topics i) How not to look at the product and how to look at the product? ii) How to start product design / How to turn your idea to a working model? iii) Paul Elder Critical Thinking framework iv) Design Thinking and Methodologies v) Practical Case studies Expected Outcomes: 1. List out problems and work on finding innovative solutions. 2. To build Critical Thinking and Design Thinking abilities through workshops. 3. Designing a product / service as the outcome at the end of project. 4. Aiming to turn non-model villages to model villages. 5. Empowering youth towards solution-oriented mindset. 97 When: The hackathon starts on 3rd May, 2020 (10:00 AM) and Ends on 14th May, 2020 (11:46:40 PM), Registration: https://bit.ly/i-innovate. There is no registration fee. Participants can form teams up to 5 members or participate individually to find a solution for the problem statement that they have chosen or come up with. Deadline: The entries close on May 2nd,2020. 98 INNOVATION YATRA 2020 Guideline document 99 About the Telangana Innovation Yatra Telangana Innovation Yatra (TIY), a 4-day journey aims to make participants explore the real- time frugal innovations and expand their knowledge beyond the horizons of traditional ideation. KULT, thin Air along with Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) brings you TIY2020, to showcase different innovations that have taken birth through personal pain and observation of problems across Telangana. A first of its kind, it takes you to 10 different districts in Telangana and throws limelight on the novel innovations that are there in each district, taking 4 different routes from the state starting from February 19 to February 22, 2020. It exposes the galore of diversified leaders who have set an example to bring that embracing change in today’s daily lives. What is TIY 2020? The Yatra, expanding over 4 days and through 4 different routes across the state from February 19th to 22nd of 2020, aims at bringing out the innovative side of the participants through: 1. Exploration of real time local innovations 2. Discussions with stakeholders for opportunities to create innovative solutions 3. Interaction with innovation experts. 100 Why should you join TIY 2020? The Yatra provides you: 1. Exposure of innovations in the state. 2. An ecosystem with likeminded yet unique individuals challenging your innovative skills. 3. Assistance in implementing your innovation successfully in the real world. 4. Improved observation, problem solving and leadership skills When: 19th to 22nd February, 2020 Where: Multiple Location Registration:https://www.meraevents.com/event/telangana-innovation- yatra?ucode=organizer Deadline - February 5th, 2020 Eligibility: Any innovator or an individual interested in innovation and entrepreneurship Objectives of the Yatra ● To give an exposure to the disruptive innovations across the state. ● To make participants interact with a multitude of pioneers and drive deep into the opportunities through innovation-ecosystem. ● Interaction with the like-minded people across the journey and meet different government authorities under one platform. ● To bring the overall development of participants and make them initiate new innovations. ● To initiate new chains of innovation through the participants acting as enablers and bridging the gap between innovative minds and resources required for innovation. 101 ● Inspiration: Inspiring the participants by making them know about the local Rural innovators and entrepreneurs. ● Experience: Involving the Participants to meet and understand about administration and local innovation ecosystem (district level). ● Learn: The participants undergoing workshops over Design Thinking and made to regulate their abilities and skills oriented towards innovation and entrepreneurship. Participants in Telangana Innovation Yatra 2020, with their motivated minds turns a pioneer in, ● Building Local Ecosystem ● Enabling the innovative minds with the Ecosystems ● Bridging the gap between local and rural Entrepreneurs, Innovators and administration. Agenda of the Yatra: Day 1- 19th February ● Expressing the need for innovation through opportunities by Government, corporates and other stakeholders. ● Creating an innovative solution for a given opportunity through systematic approach at the Design Thinking Workshop ● Meeting the local innovators and understanding their experiences through their innovation stories. Day 2- 20th February ● Meeting the real time problems addressed by the District Administration ● Undergoing the second session of Design Thinking Workshop to ensure the approach perfectly ● Experiencing the innovations implanted by the existing local innovators of that area. 102 Day 3- 21st February ● Scouting and documenting the innovations in a particular region. ● Understanding existing innovations and adding value to those innovations. ● Designing the customized solutions wherever required Day 4- 22nd February ● Exposure to the establishment and enriching resources of the Ecosystem located in Hyderabad. ● Exhibiting the solutions to the Government officials and other stakeholders ● Closing ceremony Outcomes of the Yatra ● A new era of innovation in Telangana ● A minimum of ten solutions to existing problem statements ● Inspiration, education and support for innovative minds ● Exposure of Telangana Innovation Ecosystem, their importance and utilization to the people ● 120 Enablers who can bridge the gap and engage the Ecosystem to enlighten the innovative minds in their locality, institutions and neighborhood. 103 INNOVATOR MEETUP SERIES Guideline document 104 About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. ● To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. ● To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. ● To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Innovation Meetup Series Telangana State Innovation Cell is organizing the Innovators Meetup Series (IMS) in 5 districts of Telangana. The purpose of this series is to provide necessary services to Innovators to help them convert their Innovation into startups. It is a hands-on multidisciplinary workshop that will enable the Innovators to understand Innovation and Startup ecosystem and help them build their own startup. The Innovators Meetup Series includes the following sessions: ● Session on IP and helping them filing - by BizRights ● Session on Project Proposal writing - by PublishSutra (one of our T-200 winner startup) from Karimnagar incubated in SRIX ● An introduction to Telangana Innovation Ecosystem - by TSIC (information on incubations, makers space etc) 105 Venue and Details: The first series is happening in the 5 districts of Telangana to cover all the district innovators. ● 5th Nov. 2019: Karimnagar - Jyotishmati College ● 8th Nov. 2019: Warangal - SRIX ● 11th Nov. 2019: Nizamabad - Kakatiya Sandbox ● 13th Nov. 2019: Khammam - Swarna Bharathi Institute of Science and Technology ● 18th Nov. Mahbubnagar - Vivekananda Institute of Science and Information Technology Registration: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf8_GPxWCXCG- 4uklwWOrEKM8DyuTU2gvajsmpd8pQ2wK4i2w/viewform?vc=0&c=0&w=1 Deadline: 1st November, 2019 Eligibility: Any grassroots innovators and students 106 HACKATHON Guideline document 107 About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. About Hyderabad City Police Hackathon The first ever Hyderabad City Police Hackathon is being organized by the Hyderabad City Police in collaboration with Government of Telangana Innovation ecosystem through WE Hub as an implementing partner and with IIIT- Hyderabad, IIT- Hyderabad, JNTU- Hyderabad as Knowledge Partners. Objective: The goal of the hackathon is to incorporate new technologies into policing. The police force needs to keep pace with changing times and incorporate more technology into making policing transparent, predictive and more importantly cities and states safer for the citizens. Theme: Develop applications and solutions using emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Data Analytics. 108 Problem Statements: Cyber Crimes: Image or video processing & Forensic verification tools, Online job portals, Fake duplicate tools in the app store, verify particular credentials in website and portals, Sanitization of Search Portals, (Fake links)-Google searching mechanism, Tracking Offensive Tools. Crimes against Women and Children: Installation in trafficking, Late night security, Workforce harassment, Dark and deep networks, Child pornography, GPS enabled systems-hotspots which help in tracking eve-teasing, to initiate surveillance of social media and internet Road Safety and awareness: Intelligent parking systems, Footpath Encroachments, Smart Technology to identify Violations by two-wheeler & four-wheeler Social Media monitoring including tackling fake news: Tackling fake news, CCTV data slicing When: 36-hour Hackathon will be conducted on 18th and 19th January 2020 Where: Kotla Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy Indoor stadium, Yousufguda Registration: http://wehub.telangana.gov.in/hackathon.html. Registrations open from 20/12/2019 to 17/01/2020 Eligibility: - Students from Engineering colleges across Hyderabad - Startups - Corporates - Young innovators. 109 Rewards: - A jury consisting of Hyderabad City Police, the WE HUB team, academia and business mentors from VC firms, corporates and innovation ecosystem enablers will judge the solutions. - One team from each of the focus areas with the most innovative ideas was shortlisted. - Winner will receive an award of INR 1,00,000, with the runners-up receiving INR 20,000 each. 110