GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA ABSTRACT Works – e-Procurement – Invitation of bids through e-Procurement for the works / supplies costing Rs.1.00 (L) and above – Uniformity in all the Departments – Abeyance – Orders – Issued. FINANCE (WP) DEPARTMENT G.O Ms.No.41 Dt.17-11-2014 Read the following: 1) G.O.Ms.No.02, Fin.(W&P-F7) Dept., dt.03.02.2014 2) G.o.Rt.No.591, G.A.(Cabinet) Dept., dt.17.09.2014 3) C.No.612/Reforms/A1/2014, dt.28.10.2014 of I&CAD Dept. ***** ORDER:- In the reference 1st cited, orders were issued for adopting e-procurement platform for all works and material procurement (for works and for stationery / livery supplies for offices etc.,) costing Rs.1.00 Lakh and above so as to enhance transparency and bring uniformity across all the departments. 2. In the reference 3rd cited, the I & CAD Department have informed that representations from public representatives and many small contractors were received expressing difficulty in adopting e-procurement system for small works costing less than Rs.5.00 lakhs. 3. The Cabinet Sub-Committee constituted, vide reference 2nd cited, for revival and restoration of Minor Irrigation sources, have recommended unanimously to keep the G.O in reference1st cited in abeyance. 4. Government after careful consideration of the matter, have decided to keep the G.O in the reference 1st cited in abeyance until further orders. (BY ORDER AND IN THE NAME OF THE GOVERNOR OF TELANGANA) V.NAGI REDDY, PRINCIPAL FINANCE SECRETARY To All the Departments of Secretariat. Copy to: The PS to the Chief Secretary to Government, The PS to All Special Chief Secretaries / Principal Secretaries / Secretaries of all Departments of Secretariat, All the District Collectors in the State. The Director of Works Accounts, Telangana. SF/SC. //FORWARDED :: BY ORDER// SECTION OFFICER