SSR 2022 Reform Area 2 (RA 2) Action Point 8 (AP 8) Number of programs undertaken in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to support student entrepreneurs. AP 8 Telangana’s Response Document QUESTION How many programs have been undertaken in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to support student entrepreneurs? ANSWER The Government of Telangana and Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in Telangana have conducted 35 programs to support student entrepreneurs and foster innovation and entrepreneurship among students in the State. The 35 programs were undertaken by 6 institutions in the state i.e., Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC), WE-Hub, Ag-Hub, T-Hub, T-AIM ,and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hub (J-Hub). The following table shows the breakdown of the programs conducted by each institute. Name of Organization Number of Programs Telangana State Innovation Cell - TSIC 16 WE-Hub 9 T- Hub 2 Ag-Hub 6 T-AIM 1 Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (J- 1 Hub) Total 35 2 Summary Report 1. TSIC - School Innovation Challenge About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. 3 TSIC - School Innovation Challenge Program Summary Knowledge Partners and collaborators: To promote the culture of Design Thinking and Innovation, Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC), Govt. of Telangana, in collaboration with UNICEF and Inqui-lab Foundation, has initiated a School level Innovation Challenge in 2020, a one of its kind program in the country that aimed at Telangana State to be a pioneer in promoting 21st century skills and design thinking for the teachers and students. The success of this initiative and extraordinary participation of the students has reinforced the state’s vision in building problem solving and innovation capacity in children to solve real world challenges. To continue the spirit of Innovation & Entrepreneurship, to create mindsets to solve problems in their community, TSIC, UNICEF and Inqui-Lab Foundation launched the second edition of the Telangana School Innovation Challenge 2021.The program was launched by the Hon’ble Minister of IT E&C, Shri. K.T.Rama Rao garu and Hon’ble Minister of Education, Smt. Sabita Indra Reddy garu on 20th September, Monday at 10.30 am in Pragathi Bhavan, Hyderabad. This year in an attempt to reach wider students and expand the scope, we extended the opportunity for tribal welfare, social welfare, BC welfare, minority welfare, tribal gurukul and budget private schools along with the government schools to participate in the School Innovation Challenge which would encourage more students to contribute to the state’s vision of fostering innovation culture in our educational institutions. Training and orientation sessions for the teachers on design thinking and school innovation challenge took place after the launch. All the nominated government high school teachers were trained using the online platforms (Zoom) on managing design & innovation in schools. Post which, teachers identified interested students and enrolled them on the school innovation challenge portal. For the next following month, registered students teams have completed the specially designed online course comprising animated videos and interactive assessments and have submitted their ideas. 4 About program implementation: Telangana state, to promote the culture of Design Thinking and Innovation, Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC), Govt. of Telangana, in collaboration with UNICEF and Inqui-lab Foundation, has initiated a School level Innovation program, a one of its kind programs in the country that aimed at Telangana State to be a pioneer in promoting 21st-century skills and design thinking for the teachers and students. The success of this initiative and the extraordinary participation of the students has reinforced the state’s vision in building problem-solving and innovation capacity in children to solve real-world challenges. A total of 25166 students from classes 6-10 under gone through an online course on design thinking which consists of 20 instructional videos along with in-between assessments. Post the completion of the online course, student teams submit an innovative idea to solve any selected problem statement. System level recommendations - integration to the calendar, integration to curriculum ● Integration to the Academic Calendar: It’ll help the stakeholders to do the resource planning and prepare for the implementation of the program in advance. ● Integration to the curriculum: A continuous engagement through the curriculum would help to build and sustain essential skills which can act as a base for students going forward. It has the potential to lay a stronger foundation for the kids to participate in other problem-solving events as well. ● Identifying and training teachers who showed interest and intent across the state as community leaders to act as advocates in building a culture of problem-solving and innovation. If a structure can be created to develop this network of teachers, they can be our observing and pressure points in helping us to drive problem-solving in the communities. ● Repository of problem statements and solutions that would help governments better understand communities. Students online course: Teachers enrolled interested students for the School Innovation Challenge in teams of 2-4 on the SIC Portal. Student teams completed an online course on design thinking which consists of 20 instructional videos along with in-between assessments. Post the completion of the online course, student teams submit an innovative idea solving any selected problem statement. 5 6 Evaluation Through a specially designated evaluators portal, a group of trained volunteers and evaluators have evaluated the ideas. The submitted ideas were evaluated in 3 rounds based on the following criteria. ● New/Novelty ● Usefulness ● Feasibility (Budgetary and Technical) ● Scalability ● Affordability After multiple rounds of evaluations, 79 ideas from 33 districts of Telangana were selected to the district level prototyping bootcamps. Implementation Support: 60+ Youth volunteers trained and were part of the School Innovation Program from September 2021 to April 2022 leading different roles in the implementation of the School Innovation Challenge. District wise what is app groups were created for easier communication and a helpline was set up to address the queries of the teachers and students. Total WhatsApp Groups Created 70 Total Calls Received 3437 Total Calls made (Campaigns reminders and queries) 37,072 Number of Volunteers 60 7 Summary Report 2. TSIC - School Innovation Challenge District Level Bootcamps About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. 8 TSIC District Level Bootcamps at Nodal points of 33 districts across Telangana state summary A prototyping workshop has been conducted for all the selected student teams at different nodal points as per the erstwhile districts to orient them on the tools and techniques of prototyping from 16th-26th of March, 2022 where a group of 25 mentors guided students to build basic prototypes of their ideas. The major objective of the bootcamps is to introduce the basic tools and techniques of prototyping and solution testing. A total of 315 students participated and utilized the program from nodal points of 33 districts across Telangana state. 9 Summary Report 3. TSIC - School Innovation Challenge SIC Post-program support About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. 10 Post program support: Impact on Students through their Journey Story of Saniya: ● Supported her after the grand finale last year. Developed her idea by connecting with a mentor ● Through SO, because of her problem-solving abilities, she was selected for an internship where she has learnt a variety of skills from which will aid her journey going forward. Story of Sriram: ● We have identified this through our impact calls and decided to provide support for his ● civic action of getting his school bathrooms cleaned ● We have later come to know that he is a natural problem solver. In the process he has ● identified more problems and is trying to solve them. ● He chose to work on a problem related to his parents. Through Inquilab he was able to ● get mentorship from Mallesham garu to develop his first prototype ● Also through SO, he has completed a course in basic coding, learnt English and is ● keen to apply these skills in his problem-solving journey. TSIC School Innovation Challenge Post-program support program aimed at the intervention and content that 79 district-level shortlisted students go through is 3-5 hours, a platform is needed for all the interested students to learn more about problem-solving and to share their thoughts, and ideas. This will help to sustain the reach of the program by providing an avenue for students to become problem solvers. Bootcamps, Entrepreneurship development activities were performed during this process. Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) Created a post-program accelerator for selected innovations and mapping appropriate mentors to provide continuous engagements in developing their idea (if not worked out then nudging students to look for other ideas) and provide an opportunity for them to learn other important skills that’ll aid them in their journey. A total of 79 students mentored and provided post-program support from this program. 11 Summary Report 4. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A GDCs Faculty Orientation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 12 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. Government Degree Colleges: ● Collegiate education colleges in Telangana are a group of higher education institutions that offer undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs in various fields. These colleges are run by the Department of Collegiate Education, Government of Telangana and are affiliated with Osmania University, Kakatiya University, Mahatma Gandhi University, and other universities in the state. ● The collegiate education colleges in Telangana offer degree programs in various fields, including arts, science, commerce, and management. These colleges have a diverse range of programs catering to the needs and interests of students from various backgrounds and with different career aspirations. They provide students with quality education and guidance from highly qualified faculty members who are experts in their respective fields. ● The collegiate education colleges in Telangana are known for their academic excellence and infrastructure facilities. The colleges have modern classrooms, well-equipped laboratories, and libraries that provide students with all the necessary resources to excel in their academic pursuits. ● In addition to academic programs, the collegiate education colleges in Telangana also offer various co-curricular activities and opportunities for students to develop their skills in areas such as sports, music, drama, and debate. The colleges also have active placement cells that assist students in finding suitable job opportunities after graduation. ● Overall, the collegiate education colleges in Telangana provide students with a conducive learning environment and a platform to pursue their academic and career aspirations. 13 YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A GDCs Faculty Orientation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, 14 and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government Degree faculties. With the support of Shri. Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Technical and Collegiate Education on YFSI boarded the faculty of the Government degree colleges. On May 21, 2022, professors, ED cell coordinators, and around 230 faculties from 110 colleges received orientation. A total of 4920 students have registered for the course and have participated in the program. Telangana State has adopted the Hybrid Learning Model for Youth for Social Impact (YFSI) in 110 government degree colleges on the initiative of TSIC govt. of Telangana. As per the model, the 230 GDCs faculties from 110 Government Degree Colleges are on-boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the faculties. With the support of Shri. Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Technical and Collegiate Education on YFSI boarded the faculty of the Government degree colleges. On May 21, 2022, Professors, ED cell coordinators, and around 230 faculties from 110 colleges received orientation. 15 Summary Report 5. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A GDCs Student Innovation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 16 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. Government Degree Colleges: ● Collegiate education colleges in Telangana are a group of higher education institutions that offer undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs in various fields. These colleges are run by the Department of Collegiate Education, Government of Telangana and are affiliated with Osmania University, Kakatiya University, Mahatma Gandhi University, and other universities in the state. ● The collegiate education colleges in Telangana offer degree programs in various fields, including arts, science, commerce, and management. These colleges have a diverse range of programs catering to the needs and interests of students from various backgrounds and with different career aspirations. They provide students with quality education and guidance from highly qualified faculty members who are experts in their respective fields. ● The collegiate education colleges in Telangana are known for their academic excellence and infrastructure facilities. The colleges have modern classrooms, well-equipped laboratories, and libraries that provide students with all the necessary resources to excel in their academic pursuits. ● In addition to academic programs, the collegiate education colleges in Telangana also offer various co-curricular activities and opportunities for students to develop their skills in areas such as sports, music, drama, and debate. The colleges also have active placement cells that assist students in finding suitable job opportunities after graduation. ● Overall, the collegiate education colleges in Telangana provide students with a conducive learning environment and a platform to pursue their academic and career aspirations. Student Engagement by the team during the implementation of YFSI ● Regular calls with the faculty from various colleges and time to time understanding of the implementation challenges. ● Support calls were addressed during the course of the program. 17 ● A total of 6 faculty WhatsApp groups are made for coordination with each department. Everyday reminders and support were provided through the groups. ● Content and videos which would help the faculties and students were also regularly posted. ● A support email ID was created to address the technical issues of the portal and other high-level grievances. ● Visit colleges to understand the challenges directly from the ground. A few colleges in and around Telangana are visited and observations are documented. About the Program: Duration of the Program: 6 days Dates of the Program: 21/05/2022 to 28/05/2022 Venue: Multiple Government Degree Colleges (110 ) Brief Overview: After successfully completion of the YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) faculty orientation, under hybrid learning model, a 6-day student engagement model, where the faculties are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. Through teacher tool-kit document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities. A total of 4920 students have registered from 110 GDCs for the course and have participated in the program. 18 Summary Report. 6. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A ITI Faculty Orientation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 19 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About ITI Colleges in Telangana. ITI (Industrial Training Institute) colleges in Telangana offer vocational training to students who want to acquire skills in various trades such as electrician, fitter, welder, plumber, etc. These colleges are established and managed by the Directorate of Employment and Training, Government of Telangana. The courses offered by these colleges vary depending on the location and demand for particular trades. However, some of the common trades that are offered by most ITI colleges include electrician, fitter, welder, plumber, machinist, carpenter, and computer operator and programming assistant. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A ITIs Faculty Orientation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. 20 Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government ITI faculties. Government ITI colleges: Seeking a diverse student group, ITI colleges were on-boarded on May 28, 2022, with the consultation of Shri. Nagesh, Director of training and employment, Telangana. A faculty orientation with around 110 faculty members from these colleges was conducted on June 9, 2022. Telangana State has adopted the Hybrid Learning Model for Youth for Social Impact (YFSI) in ITI colleges on the initiative of TSIC govt. of Telangana. As per the model, the 110 ITI faculties are on-boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the faculties. 21 22 Summary Report 7. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A ITIs Student Innovation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 23 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About ITI Colleges in Telangana. ITI (Industrial Training Institute) colleges in Telangana offer vocational training to students who want to acquire skills in various trades such as electrician, fitter, welder, plumber, etc. These colleges are established and managed by the Directorate of Employment and Training, Government of Telangana. The courses offered by these colleges vary depending on the location and demand for particular trades. However, some of the common trades that are offered by most ITI colleges include electrician, fitter, welder, plumber, machinist, carpenter, and computer operator and programming assistant. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A ITI Student Innovation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. 24 Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government ITI faculties. After successfully completion of the YFSI (TSIC) faculty orientation, under hybrid learning model, a 6-day student engagement model, where the faculties are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. Through teacher tool-kit document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities. A total of 2447 students have registered from ITI colleges across Telangana state for the course and have participated in the program. Student Engagement by the team during the implementation of YFSI ● Regular calls with the faculty from various colleges and time to time understanding of the implementation challenges. ● Support calls were addressed during the course of the program. ● A total of 6 faculty WhatsApp groups are made for coordination with each department. Everyday reminders and support were provided through the groups. 25 ● Content and videos which would help the faculties and students were also regularly posted. ● A support email ID was created to address the technical issues of the portal and other high-level grievances. ● Visit colleges to understand the challenges directly from the ground. A few colleges in and around Telangana are visited and observations are documented. Summary Report 8. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A SWRDCs & TWRDCs Faculty Orientation Program. About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. 26 TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential degree Colleges The Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential Degree Colleges are institutions established by the Telangana Tribal Welfare and Social Welfare Departments. These colleges offer undergraduate degree programs in various fields such as Arts, Science, Commerce, and Management. These colleges are intended to provide higher education to students from socially and economically disadvantaged communities. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A SWRDCs & TWRDCs Faculty Orientation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for 27 Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare degree faculties. About Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare degree colleges faculty Orientation The orientation of more than 60 faculty members from 16 Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential colleges took place on June 17, 2022, following consultation with Sri Ronald Ross, Secretary for TSWREIS, Sri. Praveen Mamidala, Dy. Secretary, Higher Education, TSWRIES and also special mention to the OSDs from TSWREIS and TTWREIS for their continuous support. 28 Considering the exam schedule of OU and KU universities a similar orientation program was conducted for faculty of another set of Social and Tribal Welfare colleges. A total of 60 faculty attended this orientation. Telangana State has adopted the Hybrid Learning Model for Youth for Social Impact (YFSI) for Social welfare and Tribal welfare colleges on the initiative of TSIC govt. of Telangana. As per the model, the 60 faculties are on-boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the faculties. 29 Summary Report 9. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A SWRDCs & TWRDCs Student Innovation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 30 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential degree Colleges The Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential Degree Colleges are institutions established by the Telangana Tribal Welfare and Social Welfare Departments. These colleges offer undergraduate degree programs in various fields such as Arts, Science, Commerce, and Management. These colleges are intended to provide higher education to students from socially and economically disadvantaged communities. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A SWRDCs & TWRDCs Student Innovation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. 31 Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the SWRDCs & TWRDCs faculties. After successfully completion of the YFSI (TSIC) faculty orientation, under hybrid learning model, a 6-day student engagement model, where the faculties are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. Through teacher tool-kit document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities. A total of 2109 students have registered from Multiple SWs, TWs, students across Telangana State for the course and have participated in the program. Student Engagement by the team during the implementation of YFSI ● Regular calls with the faculty from various colleges and time to time understanding of the implementation challenges. ● Support calls were addressed during the course of the program. 32 ● A total of 6 faculty WhatsApp groups are made for coordination with each department. Everyday reminders and support were provided through the groups. ● Content and videos which would help the faculties and students were also regularly posted. ● A support email ID was created to address the technical issues of the portal and other high-level grievances. ● Visit colleges to understand the challenges directly from the ground. A few colleges in and around Telangana are visited and observations are documented. 33 Summary Report 10. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Kakatiya University Faculty Orientation About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 34 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Kakatiya University Kakatiya University is a public university located in Warangal, Telangana, India. It was established on August 19, 1976, with the aim of providing higher education to students in the Telangana region. The university offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in a wide range of fields, including arts, science, commerce, engineering, law, education, and management. Kakatiya University has a sprawling campus of over 650 acres, with state-of-the-art infrastructure and facilities. The university has several departments and centers of excellence that conduct research in various fields. The university also has several affiliated colleges in the Telangana region. Kakatiya University is known for its academic excellence, and it has consistently been ranked among the top universities in India. The university has also been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with an 'A+' grade. The university is named after the Kakatiya dynasty, which ruled the region from the 12th to the 14th century. The university's emblem is derived from the Kakatiya emblem, which features a double-headed bird, a symbol of power, and a wheel, a symbol of progress. 35 The orientation of more than 30 faculty members from Kakatiya University for their continuous support. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Kakatiya University Faculty Orientation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- 36 boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Kakatiya University faculties. 37 Summary Report: 11. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Orientation Program for Government Polytechnic Faculties. About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 38 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Government Polytechnic Colleges, Telangana. Polytechnic colleges in Telangana are technical education institutions that offer three-year diploma courses in various engineering and non-engineering fields. These colleges provide technical education to students who want to acquire practical skills and knowledge in fields such as engineering, technology, and applied sciences. The diploma courses offered by these colleges are recognized by the Telangana State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET). YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Government Polytechnic Faculty Orientation Program overview The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are a group of technical institutions that offer diploma courses in engineering and technology. These institutions are run by the Government of Telangana and are affiliated with the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET), which is responsible for the development and regulation of technical education in the state. There are a total of 52 Government Polytechnic Institutions in Telangana, located in various districts of the state. These institutions offer diploma courses in a variety of fields, including civil engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, electronics and communication engineering, computer engineering, and information technology. The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are known for providing quality technical education to students and equipping them with the necessary skills to excel in their respective fields. The institutions have a strong emphasis on practical learning and provide students with hands-on training in modern laboratories and workshops. In addition to the diploma courses, the Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana also offer various short-term and skill development courses, which enable students to 39 acquire new skills and enhance their employability. These institutions also have active placement cells that assist students in finding suitable job opportunities after graduation. To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. 40 A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government Polytechnic faculties. Telangana State has adopted the Hybrid Learning Model for Youth for Social Impact (YFSI) in Kakatiya University, Social welfare and Tribal welfare colleges on the initiative of TSIC govt. of Telangana. As per the model, the 120 faculties are on-boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. With the support from Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Technical Education and consultation of Shri. A.Swamy, Deputy Director of Department of Technical Education, a faculty orientation was held on the 20th June 2022 with over 120 faculty from 52 Govt. Polytechnic colleges. 41 Summary Report 12. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Reboot Session for the Government Polytechnic Faculty. About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 42 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Government Polytechnic Colleges Telangana The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are a group of technical institutions that offer diploma courses in engineering and technology. These institutions are run by the Government of Telangana and are affiliated with the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET), which is responsible for the development and regulation of technical education in the state. There are a total of 52 Government Polytechnic Institutions in Telangana, located in various districts of the state. These institutions offer diploma courses in a variety of fields, including civil engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, electronics and communication engineering, computer engineering, and information technology. The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are known for providing quality technical education to students and equipping them with the necessary skills to excel in their respective fields. The institutions have a strong emphasis on practical learning and provide students with hands-on training in modern laboratories and workshops. In addition to the diploma courses, the Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana also offer various short-term and skill development courses, which enable students to acquire new skills and enhance their employability. These institutions also have active placement cells that assist students in finding suitable job opportunities after graduation. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Reboot Session for the Government Polytechnic Faculty Orientation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. 43 The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government Polytechnic faculties. A reboot session was also conducted for 50 teachers on July 22, 2022, as the colleges were shut for vacation for a brief period of time. 44 Summary Report 13. YFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Government Polytechnic Student Innovation Program About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 45 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. About Government Polytechnic Colleges Telangana The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are a group of technical institutions that offer diploma courses in engineering and technology. These institutions are run by the Government of Telangana and are affiliated with the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET), which is responsible for the development and regulation of technical education in the state. There are a total of 52 Government Polytechnic Institutions in Telangana, located in various districts of the state. These institutions offer diploma courses in a variety of fields, including civil engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, electronics and communication engineering, computer engineering, and information technology. The Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana are known for providing quality technical education to students and equipping them with the necessary skills to excel in their respective fields. The institutions have a strong emphasis on practical learning and provide students with hands-on training in modern laboratories and workshops. In addition to the diploma courses, the Government Polytechnic Institutions of Telangana also offer various short-term and skill development courses, which enable students to acquire new skills and enhance their employability. These institutions also have active placement cells that assist students in finding suitable job opportunities after graduation. 46 ImmersionYFSI-Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) A Government Polytechnic Student Innovation Program overview To build problem-solving skills in youth to address grass root problems by co-creating solutions and designing sustainable and scalable solutions and to create a social impact, Inqui-Lab Foundation in collaboration with Telangana State Innovation Cell and UNICEF is piloting the project Youth for Social Impact. This program is open to all the students registered in colleges across Telangana. The program is built to offer students with the knowledge, mentor support, grassroots level exposure and incubation support to implement innovative solutions. The program is launched on March 7, 2022, by Shri Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT, E&C, Government of Telangana; Shri Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary to Government, Education, Government of Telangana; Shri Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education, Government of Telangana; Meital Rusdia, Chief Field Officer for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, UNICEF India and other representatives from TSIC, UNICEF, Yuwaah and Inqui-lab Foundation. Hybrid Model: With the intention of reaching out to as many colleges as possible, particularly Government Colleges and providing an opportunity to every potential student across the state, Youth for Social Impact has adopted a hybrid learning model. As per the model, the teachers are on- boarded and oriented about YFSI first and are trained to take the program to the beneficiary students. The hybrid learning module is a 6-day student engagement model, where the teachers are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, 47 and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. A teacher tool-kit is made and shared across with the teachers. This document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities, infrastructure support needed, teacher and student actions. A teacher tool kit provided to the Government Polytechnic faculties. After successfully completion of the YFSI (TSIC) faculty orientation, under hybrid learning model, a 6-day student engagement model, where the faculties are equipped to help the students register, complete the learning modules, take the assessment, and submit an innovative idea using the college infrastructure within their working hours. Through teacher tool-kit document includes a session plan for orientation, and a 6-day engagement plan of the hybrid model debriefing the day to day activities. A total of 2259 students have registered from Multiple Government Polytechnic students across Telangana State for the course and have participated in the program. Student Engagement by the team during the implementation of YFSI ● Regular calls with the faculty from various colleges and time to time understanding of the implementation challenges. ● Support calls were addressed during the course of the program. ● A total of 6 faculty WhatsApp groups are made for coordination with each department. Everyday reminders and support were provided through the groups. ● Content and videos which would help the faculties and students were also regularly posted. ● A support email ID was created to address the technical issues of the portal and other high-level grievances. ● Visit colleges to understand the challenges directly from the ground. A few colleges in and around Telangana are visited and observations are documented. 48 Summary Report 14. YFSI - Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Students Immersion program for 4 weeks About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 49 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. YFSI - Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Students Immersion program for 4 weeks After completion of the Ideas registration, 37 students shortlisted from multiple colleges across the Telangana who gone through the YFSI program and they are directed for Innovation development program from 15/10/2022 to 15/11/2022 along with Mentoring & Brainstorming for 30days under the Students Immersion program. 50 Summary Report 15. YFSI - Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Innovation bootcamp and showcase About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and 51 entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. YFSI - Youth for Social Impact (TSIC) Innovation bootcamp and showcase After successfully completion of the Students Immersion program, 37 students shortlisted for Innovation bootcamp and showcase from multiple colleges across Telangana, TSIC - YFSI planned a bootcamp and showcase for exposure visits and pitching sessions for 3days. 52 Summary Report 16. TSIC - Innovation Immersion Program for RGUKT, Basar. About Telangana State Innovation Cell: The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is an initiative by the Government of Telangana to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the state. TSIC is a part of the Telangana State Innovation Policy and is under the administrative control of the Department of Information Technology, Electronics, and Communications (ITE&C). The main objective of TSIC is to foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the state by providing a platform for startups, innovators, and entrepreneurs. The cell also focuses on providing guidance and support to students, researchers, and industry professionals to develop and commercialize innovative ideas and solutions. TSIC offers various programs and initiatives, including incubation programs, mentoring, funding, and networking opportunities. The cell also provides access to facilities such as labs, co-working spaces, and equipment to support innovation and entrepreneurship. TSIC collaborates with various organizations, including academic institutions, industry associations, and government agencies, to create a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in Telangana. The ultimate goal of TSIC is to make Telangana a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship in India. The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) was set up in 2017 under the State Innovation Policy with a three-fold mandate. 1) To promote the culture of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the state. 2) To promote Innovation in Government departments and organizations. 3) To build a culture of Innovation from the school stage. 53 About Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies - RGUKT-Basar. Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) Basar is a public university located in Basar, Telangana, India. It was established in 2008 by the Government of Telangana with the aim of providing quality education to students from rural areas of the state. RGUKT Basar offers a six-year integrated program that leads to a Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) degree in six different engineering disciplines, including Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Materials Science and Metallurgical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. The university also offers a two-year postgraduate program leading to a Master of Technology (M.Tech) degree. The university has a residential campus, and all students are required to stay on campus for the duration of the program. The campus has modern facilities, including well-equipped classrooms, laboratories, and libraries. The university also provides students with access to sports facilities, a gymnasium, and other recreational amenities. RGUKT Basar is known for its academic excellence and has consistently been ranked among the top universities in India. The university has a strong emphasis on research and innovation, and its faculty members are actively engaged in cutting-edge research in various fields. The university has a unique admissions process, where students are selected based on their performance in the Telangana State Board of Secondary Education (SSC) examination. The top-performing students from rural areas of Telangana are selected for admission to the university. This process ensures that students from rural areas of the state have access to quality education and are provided with opportunities to excel in their respective fields. TSIC - Innovation Immersion Program for RGUKT, Basar. TSIC Innovation Immersion Program is an educational Entrepreneurship program designed for RGUKT, basar students to provides students with an opportunity to gain practical experience in innovation and entrepreneurship. The program is designed to foster innovation 54 and creativity among students and help them develop the skills and knowledge needed to start and grow a successful business. A total of 200 students participated in this program. Activities performed during the program. 1. Workshops and Lectures: 2. Expert Mentorship: 3. Design Thinking and Ideation: 4. Prototype Development: 5. Business Planning and Market Research: 6. Pitching and Feedback: Overall, TSIC and RGUKT, Basar an Innovation Immersion Program provides a comprehensive learning experience that equips students with the knowledge, skills, and networks needed to succeed in the innovation economy. A total of 200 students participated in this program. Summary Report: 17. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Bhavan's Vivekananda College, Sainikpuri, Secunderabad. About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works 55 with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. The WE Alpha program is a student entrepreneurship program takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The program is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical-thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Bhavan's Vivekananda College, Sainikpuri, Secunderabad. A total of 108 students participated in this program. 56 Summary Report 18. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Loyola Academy, Jeedimetla, Hyderabad About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. The WE Alpha program is a student entrepreneurship program takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The program is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical-thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Loyola Academy, Jeedimetla, Hyderabad. A total of 100 students participated in this program. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. 57 Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Loyola Academy, Jeedimetla, Hyderabad. A total of 100 students participated in this program. Summary Report 19. WE Alpha Roadshow@ BVRIT-Hyderabad. About WE-Hub: 58 WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of BVRIT, Hyderabad. A total of 53 students participated in this program. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and 59 ideation worship have been conducted for the students of BVRIT, Hyderabad. A total of 53 students participated in this program. Summary Report 20. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Badruka College PG Centre, Kachiguda, Hyderabad. About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women 60 entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Badruka College PG Centre, Kachiguda, Hyderabad. A total of 34 students participated in this program. 61 Summary Report 21. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management. About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management, Hyderabad. A total of 50 students participated in this program. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” 62 The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management, Hyderabad. A total of 50 students participated in this program. Summary Report 22. WE Alpha Roadshow@ St. Anns College for Women, Mehdipatnam, Hyderabad. About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women 63 entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management, Hyderabad. A total of 48 students participated in this program. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Hyderabad Institute of 64 Technology and Management, Hyderabad. A total of 48 students participated in this program. Summary Report 23. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Saanvi Degree College About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. 65 WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Saanvi Degree College, Saidabad, Hyderabad. A total of 42 students participated in this program. 66 Summary Report 24. WE Alpha Roadshow@ Sumathi Reddy Institute of Technology for Women, Warangal About WE-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. 67 These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. As a part of the Student Entrepreneurship vertical, We-Hub Hyderabad with its “WE Alpha” is a program that equips students who wish to start their entrepreneurial journey before they step into the real world. A Roadshow and ideation worship have been conducted for the students of Sumathi Reddy Institute of Technology for Women, Warangal. A total of 36 students participated in this program. Summary Report 25. First cohort of WE Alpha. About We-Hub: WE Hub Foundation, registered under Section 8 of the (Indian) Companies Act 2013, is under the purview of I.T E & C Department, Government of Telangana. WE Hub (Women Entrepreneurs Hub) is India’s first and only State led Incubator to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and create a Global collaborative network for Women led Enterprises to thrive. WE Hub's primary goal is to promote and foster women entrepreneurship by way of Incubation, Access to Government and Building a collaborative ecosystem. WE Hub works with the mission to ensure that all women entrepreneurs in the country have access to technical, financial, governmental and policy support required to startup, scaleup, sustain and accelerate with global market access. We-Hub further shortlisted after the roadshow program, the first cohort of WE Alpha will be launched, mentoring and giving hands-on training on critical skills which are helpful for the practical implementation of entrepreneurship. 68 About the Program State-led incubator WE HUB announced the graduation of its first cohort of the student entrepreneurship program. Inculcating innovative thinking at the student stage to ensure the participation of girls and young women in the economy of Telangana. We hub encourages colleges to engage with the Telangana innovation ecosystem through programs like WE Alpha,” The WE Alpha student entrepreneurship programme takes college students through creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The programme is focused on a curated curriculum and hands-on learning to impart a creative and critical thinking approach toward innovation and entrepreneurship. These selected student teams were taken through an in-person eight-week program, encompassing ideation, technical mentoring, design knowledge, business skills, interpersonal skills, team building skills, and communication skills. They also had an opportunity to pitch for internships with WE HUB-incubated startups. The program culminated with 12 teams developing prototypes. The teams will be supported by WE HUB to register with DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) as startup companies. We-hub has received 100 applications from 471 students from 6 colleges, out of which 29 ideas have been selected to pitch at our We-Hub HQ followed by the teams split into three panels to showcase their ideas. Once they are further shortlisted, the first cohort of WE Alpha will be launched, mentoring them and giving hands-on training on critical skills which are helpful for the practical implementation of entrepreneurship. 69 Summary Report 26. AIC T-Hub Beyond the Innovation@ Institute of Aeronautical Engineering About T-Hub T-Hub is a startup incubator and innovation center located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was launched in November 2015 by the Telangana government, along with its strategic partners IIIT-Hyderabad and ISB. T-Hub aims to foster entrepreneurship and innovation by providing startups with access to resources such as mentors, investors, and industry experts, as well as infrastructure such as office space, high-speed internet, and meeting rooms. The incubator focuses on a variety of sectors, including information technology, health, and sustainability. T-Hub has several programs designed to support startups at different stages of their development, including T-Angel, a network of angel investors; T-Works, a prototvyping and fabrication laboratory; and T-Start, an incubation program for early-stage startups. Since its launch, T-Hub has supported more than 1,100 startups and has raised over $1.5 billion in funding. It has also been recognized as one of the leading startup incubators in India and has received several awards and accolades for its work in fostering entrepreneurship and innovation. About the Program: T-Hub Beyond the Innovation in collaboration with AIC-IIITH FOUNDATION is an Atal Incubation Center set up exclusively for incubating and supporting tech-based social enterprises. It seeks to deploy entrepreneurial energy and technological innovation for social impact to help India achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the program, Team T-Hub and AIC focused on 6 steps of process to enlighten to the participants in the Institute of Aeronautical Engineering - IARE, Hyderabad. 70 Step 1: Define your business idea The first step is to define to business idea in a clear and concise manner. The business idea should explain what product or service is, who target audience is, and how it solves a problem or meets a need in the market. Step 2: Research the market Next, research the market to determine if there is a demand for the product or service. Look at competitors, market size, and trends in the industry. This information will helps identify potential customers, opportunities, and challenges. Step 3: Creating Business Model Canvas A Business Model Canvas is a visual tool that helps to describe, design, challenge, and pivot your business model. It consists of nine elements: Customer Segments, Value Proposition, Channels, Customer Relationships, Revenue Streams, Key Resources, Key Activities, Key Partnerships, and Cost Structure. That can use a template or create own canvas. Step 4: Developing pitch The pitch should be a concise and compelling presentation of the business idea that highlights its unique value proposition, target audience, and potential for growth. It should include an introduction, problem statement, solution, market opportunity, competitive landscape, revenue model, team, and call-to-action. Step 5: Practicing pitch Practicing pitch until feel confident and comfortable delivering it. Use a timer to ensure that to stay within the allotted time frame. Rehearse in front of a mirror or with a friend, and ask for feedbacking delivery, clarity, and overall effectiveness. Step 6: Delivering pitch 71 When it comes time to deliver the pitch, be confident, enthusiastic, and engaging. Speak clearly, maintain eye contact, and use gestures and body language to reinforce your message. Be open to questions and feedback from your audience. Summary Report 27. AIC T-Hub Beyond the Innovation@ BVRIT – Narsapur About T-Hub T-Hub is a startup incubator and innovation center located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was launched in November 2015 by the Telangana government, along with its strategic partners IIIT-Hyderabad and ISB. T-Hub aims to foster entrepreneurship and innovation by providing startups with access to resources such as mentors, investors, and industry experts, as well as infrastructure such as office space, high-speed internet, and meeting rooms. The incubator focuses on a variety of sectors, including information technology, health, and sustainability. T-Hub has several programs designed to support startups at different stages of their development, including T-Angel, a network of angel investors; T-Works, a prototvyping and fabrication laboratory; and T-Start, an incubation program for early-stage startups. Since its launch, T-Hub has supported more than 1,100 startups and has raised over $1.5 billion in funding. It has also been recognized as one of the leading startup incubators in India and has received several awards and accolades for its work in fostering entrepreneurship and innovation. About the Program: T-Hub Beyond the Innovation in collaboration with AIC-IIITH FOUNDATION is an Atal Incubation Center set up exclusively for incubating and supporting tech-based social enterprises. It seeks to deploy entrepreneurial energy and technological innovation for 72 social impact to help India achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the program, Team T-Hub and AIC focused on 6 steps of process to enlighten to the participants in the BVRIT - Narsapur, Medak Step 1: Define your business idea The first step is to define to business idea in a clear and concise manner. The business idea should explain what product or service is, who target audience is, and how it solves a problem or meets a need in the market. Step 2: Research the market Next, research the market to determine if there is a demand for the product or service. Look at competitors, market size, and trends in the industry. This information will helps identify potential customers, opportunities, and challenges. Step 3: Creating Business Model Canvas A Business Model Canvas is a visual tool that helps to describe, design, challenge, and pivot your business model. It consists of nine elements: Customer Segments, Value Proposition, Channels, Customer Relationships, Revenue Streams, Key Resources, Key Activities, Key Partnerships, and Cost Structure. That can use a template or create own canvas. Step 4: Developing pitch The pitch should be a concise and compelling presentation of the business idea that highlights its unique value proposition, target audience, and potential for growth. It should include an introduction, problem statement, solution, market opportunity, competitive landscape, revenue model, team, and call-to-action. Step 5: Practicing pitch Practicing pitch until feel confident and comfortable delivering it. Use a timer to ensure that to stay within the allotted time frame. Rehearse in front of a mirror or with a friend, and ask for feedbacking delivery, clarity, and overall effectiveness. Step 6: Delivering pitch When it comes time to deliver the pitch, be confident, enthusiastic, and engaging. Speak clearly, maintain eye contact, and use gestures and body language to reinforce your message. Be open to questions and feedback from your audience. 73 Summary Report 28. Ag-Hub - Design Thinking Program for PG 1.0 About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. 74 PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. Design Thinking Program 1.0 (https://ag-hub.co/designthinking/) A customized Design Thinking Program for agricultural graduates was launched for the first time in the country with the objective of inculcating a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship among young minds. This program is offered to final-year graduates of Agriculture and Allied Sectors across various colleges of PJTSAU, who are currently engaged in the Agri Entrepreneurship Learning Program (AELP). A comprehensive package of customized power-packed sessions in five modules, that orient and expose the students to the scope of entrepreneurship, current activities under AELP, and the scope of entrepreneurship in India with success stories of successful student entrepreneurs, with timely feedback sessions. More than 400 students have trained as part of the program. 75 Summary Report 29. Ag-Hub - Design Thinking Program for UG 2.0 About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. 76 PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. About the Program: As part of its mandate to inculcate the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship among undergraduate students, AgHub is offering a first-of-its-kind design thinking program for the final year students of agriculture and allied sectors across various colleges of PJTSAU. The design thinking program is a comprehensive and customized training that is used to understand users, challenge assumptions, redefine problems and create innovative solutions to prototype and test. (https://ag-hub.co/designthinking/) ● Customized curriculum ● Interaction with Successful Entrepreneurs ● Hand Holding and mentoring support 77 Summary Report 30. Ag-Hub - Design Thinking Program for Postgraduates & Researchers 3.0 About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) 78 Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. About the program Feeling the need to translate the research findings to market-ready ideas, technologies, and services among the Postgraduate students, AgHub is offering a first-of-its-kind Certificate Program on Design Thinking program for the Postgraduates of PJTSAU in agriculture & allied disciplines across research disciplines of PJTSAU. This Design Thinking program for 79 the Postgraduates of PJTSAU is designed specifically to help Postgraduates (MSc & PhD) understand the concepts of design thinking, translational research, innovation and entrepreneurship and ideation, leading to identifying a real-time problem and develop innovative solutions. (https://ag-hub.co/designthinking/) ● Customized curriculum ● Interaction with Successful Entrepreneurs ● On-ground exposure and experience ● Hand Holding and mentoring support Summary Report 31. Ag-Hub - Idea Sprout 1.0 About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. 80 About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. About Ag-Hub - Idea Sprout 1.0 Program (https://ag-hub.co/ideationprogram/) 81 AgHub announces the winners of Idea sprout 1.0 As part of the Design Thinking Program, an Ideation Event IDEA SPROUT 1.0 was launched and we have received 121 ideas from the students. 10 ideas were shortlisted and further groomed for the final pitching event. The best ideas were announced as the final winners of IDEASPROUT 1.0. The journey has been of great learning not only for the students but also forAgHub Team. The design thinking course offered by AgHub has been a game-changer for the students of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University in terms of exposure to the innovation ecosystem and entrepreneurship. 82 Summary Report 32. Ag-Hub - Idea Sprout 2.0 (https://ag-hub.co/ideationprogram/) About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. 83 The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. About the Program AgHub announces the winners of Idea sprout 2.0 As part of the Certificate course on Design Thinking for the postgraduate students of PJTSAU, an Ideation Event IDEASPROUT 2.0 was launched. The program has not only helped orient the Postgraduates and Faculty of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University on the aspects of innovation and entrepreneurship but has also inspired them to translate their research interests into fructified market services or products. The top 3 best ideas were selected as winners by the jury and teams were awarded prizes. 84 Summary Report 33. Ag-Hub - Idea Sprout 3.0 About Ag-Hub AgHub is a First of its Kind Incubator in a Hub and Spoke model with its innovation hub at PJTSAU, Hyderabad that caters to food and agritech start-ups, aspiring student entrepreneurs PAN India. The Rural Innovation Spokes caters to rural innovators and entrepreneurs seeking to promote rural entrepreneurship among rural youth, women, grassroots innovators, farmers & FPO’s in Tier-II and Tier-III towns of the State of Telangana. About Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) is a state university located in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It was established in 2014 and named after Professor Konda Lakshman Bapuji Jayashankar, an Indian academic and social reformer who played a key role in the Telangana statehood movement. PJTSAU offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in agriculture, agricultural engineering, home science, and related fields. The university has several constituent and affiliated colleges that offer various courses. 85 The mission of PJTSAU is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of agriculture, promote sustainable agricultural practices, and provide education and training to students, farmers, and other stakeholders. The university has a strong research focus and has collaborations with several national and international institutions and organizations. PJTSAU is committed to promoting the development of the agriculture sector in Telangana and beyond, and has several outreach programs to support farmers and rural communities. The university also provides consultancy services to government and non-government organizations in the areas of agriculture and rural development. Overall, PJTSAU is an important institution in the field of agriculture education and research in India, and is making significant contributions to the development of the agriculture sector in the state of Telangana and beyond. About the program: (https://ag-hub.co/ideationprogram/) AgHub announces the winners of Idea sprout 3.0_ As part of the Design Thinking Program, an Ideation Event IDEA SPROUT 3.0 was launched and we have received 164 ideas from the students. 10 ideas were shortlisted and further groomed for the final pitching event. The best ideas were announced as the final winners of IDEA SPROUT 1.0. The journey has been of great learning not only for the students but also for AgHub Team. The design thinking course offered by AgHub has been a game-changer for the students of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University in terms of exposure to the innovation ecosystem and entrepreneurship. 86 Summary Report 34. T-AIM - Academic Grand Challenge About T-AIM Telangana AI Mission (T-AIM), powered by NASSCOM has been established by the Government of Telangana with a vision to position Telangana as a global hub for Artificial Intelligence and foster social innovation. To encourage innovation within the AI community the ITE&C Department’s Emerging Technologies Wing and T-AIM actively conduct various initiatives throughout the year. To foster the entrepreneurial spirit amongst the students, T-AIM in collaboration with Wells Fargo is seeking applications for Academic Grand Challenge. About T-AIM - Academic Grand Challenge (https://taim-gc.in/academic/) 87 OBJECTIVE OF THE CHALLENGE In this challenge, student teams from colleges across India are expected to build solutions for two areas. One involves building a futuristic, pure digital bank that integrates modern technologies to enable banking wherever and whenever. The other will require building a predictive analytics model to estimate if and when the financial markets will crash during this year. A total of 14856 students registered from 573 higher education institutions for this challenge from 18.08.2022 to 30.11.2022. Summary Report 35. JHUB Hackathon league regional level About JNTUH University Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, the First Technological University of India, was established on 2nd October 1972 in Andhra Pradesh with headquarters located in a historical city Hyderabad. The University is one of the premier Universities in India accredited by NAAC with “A” Grade. After successful and proven levels of appreciated existence and stature spanning over 36 years, JNTU has been divided into four different universities by Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, through Act No.30, Dt. 24th September, 2008. One 88 of the constituent colleges of the University “JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad” is regarded as a pioneer in shaping the excellence of some of the leading organizations of the industry, by churning out the finest professionals with a resolve to scale greater heights in the technological scenario, every year. Another constituent college of JNTUH is located at Jagityal and 11 other academic units at Hyderabad campus. About the Program - JHUB Hackathon league regional level The J-Hub at JNTUH will conduct on regular basis the Hackathon events based on the Challenges posed by the Industry and Startups for the stakeholders in the form of league events. This is an extension to the regular inspirational talks and hackathon events held locally in the institutions i-Cells with the support through JHub NEN(National Entrepreneurship Network) MoU. Two league events are planned in an academic year of which over the next two years league events with industry participants in the competition will be planned, In addition, J-Hub would also act as a touch point of the university for any national Hackathon events conducted and will select and mentor the participants for the events. A total of 1502 students registered for this hackathon league regional level. 89